---
layout: sns
layoutTag: post
casefileNumber: 55ccf75fb3901011515aef1d
title: "More Deadly than the Viper"
author: Harry C. Hervey, Jr.
date: 2017-04-08
opub: Black Mask
opubdate: Aug. 1920
opubissue: Vol. 1, No. 5
category: short-stories
excerpt: "It is believed by the Chinese and Sartang Mongols that the soul of the Russian merchants wife was reincarnated in the form of a ghoul—and returns to feast upon men in the Valley of the Vanishing Men. But the facts remain that once every two weeks, a man of Tsagan-dhuntsa vanishes &hellip;"
image: /assets/img/short-stories/more-deadly-than-a-viper.png
<!-- imgh: 300px -->
genre: Supernatural Adventure
tags: short-story
wordcount: 8179
trfissue: Vol. 2 No. 7
trfdate: Mar. 26, 2017
---

<section id="toc" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h6>Table of Contents</h6>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
1. Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section><!--  table-of-contents -->

<span id="bookmark39" class="anchor"></span>

### Chapter 1
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The White Woman
{: .chaptertitle}

That face clung to Tremaine’s mind. Three hours ago, when he and his
caravan had ridden into Tsagan-dhuntsa, he had seen it framed in the
doorway of the low, swarth building that flew the Russian flag.

A white woman—here on the fringe of the world!

For four dreary months he had seen only the faces of brown and yellow
women, had heard only their tongues; and the longing for the sight of a
white woman, for the sound of a white woman’s voice, had become a
terrible thirst that threatened to wither his soul; so now— after that
journey through the white hell, from Urga across the North Gobi and the
Tchuchun-Shan Range into Tibet—the glimpse of that pallid face in the
doorway of the Russian Consulate in this desert village inspired in him
a profound reverence for its owner.

A white woman. That face haunted him. She, too, haunted him, for as she
paused there in the winter twilight, glancing over her shoulder, he
found something pathetically young, something almost tragic about her.
He wondered vaguely at her presence in the Consulate doorway, wondered,
too, if she were connected in any manner with the Consul … .

He shivered involuntarily and bent lower over the argussun fire.

Since nightfall the cold of the Tibet winter had crept into the room in
the Rest House where he sat wrapped in his sheepskin coat and it bit
through his heavy clothing with the savageness of a fanged beast.

Following the evening meal of tsamba, talkan-cakes and tea he had
retreated to his bedchamber, one of the three private rooms off the main
hall of the caravanserai, the pallid face of the first white woman that
he had seen in four months burning in his brain.

As he sat there, the flames painting his tanned skin a ruddy glow, he
heard footsteps in the hall and a moment later the burlap in the door
was thrust aside by Shagdur, his caravan-bashi.

“I have a message for you, master,” announced the high-cheeked Mongol
youth, halting just within the bare, dim-lit room.

“For me?” echoed Tremaine.

“Yes, master—from the lady at the Russian Consulate.”

At his words Tremaine’s muscles grew rigid.

“You must be mistaken, Shagdur.”

The boy shook his head. “The lady called to me as I was walking along
the main street, saying, ‘Go to your master and ask him if he will come
to the Consulate. Tell him it is urgent.’ Who else could she mean but
you—for are not you my master?”

With a word of thanks to the bashi Tremaine got up and strode rapidly
out of the room, passing through the hall into the deserted courtyard.

A stiff wind was stirring. It bore with it, from the rear of the khan,
the reek of a camel and yak, playing a melancholy dirge on the unseen
harpstrings of the night.

An excellent view of the mountains that encircled the Tsagan-dhuntsa
valley could be gained from the gate of the Rest House, and here
Tremaine paused a moment, not, however, to observe the dreary landscape,
but to assure himself that she, this girl of the Consulate doorway, had
really sent for him.

Involuntarily his eyes rose to the giant ridges that painted themselves
in huge smears of dun-color on the dark sky. Below them, the Pass opened
wolfish jaws on the caravan-road, and above, near the snow-tipped peaks
and crags, the faint outline of the whitewashed Lamaserie was sketched
upon the rocks, a single light peering from its sullen portals into the
night.

Leaving the courtyard of the caravanserai, Tremaine moved at a swift
pace along the winding, dwelling-lined main street to the Consulate.

At the gate, where a lantern on one side of the doorway stuck a lurid
tongue of light across the courtyard, he was halted by a huge, bearded
Cossack with a Berdan rifle slung over one shoulder and a balalaika
dangling from his waist.

“Are you from the Rest House, barin?” asked the Russian.

“Yes.”

The Cossack saluted. “Then come with me.”

Across the courtyard and into the Consulate building he followed the
Muscovite.

Within it was dark, but as they entered, a door opposite the one through
which they had just passed, opened, admitting a shaft of light.

In the entranceway, silhouetted upon the yellow glow, Tremaine saw a
slim form; heard a voice speaking to him.

“Won’t you come in?”

He advanced into the light alone, for the Cossack had retreated; passed
through the door; and once within he felt that he had left Tibet behind;
felt that he had shaken from him the dust of Tsagan-dhuntsa.

“It was rather bold of me to send for you in this manner,” she said in a
low, sweet voice, “But desperation knows no conventions.”

What Tremaine saw made him catch his breath. Skin of lustrous white;
wide set eyes of night blue; hair of reddish gold, parted in the center
and twisted in a knot on the back of her pallid neck; a figure at once
quaint, ethereal—yet intensely human. She wore … but he did not see what
she wore—except that it was dark.

“My name is Miriam Amber,” she told him in that low, sweet voice,
offering her hand.

“Mine is Tremaine,” he returned, accepting the hand which was like China
silk under his callous touch; “Travis Tremaine.”

She smiled at him—and for a reason that was to him inexplicable he felt
a holy dread of her, the fear of one who looks for the first time upon
the face of a Madonna; felt, too, that the bonds of a new thralldom were
being fastened about him.

“I will have Lotus-eye take your coat and hat,” she said, and struck a
gong that rang silvern in the room—a room that was small and filled with
a fragrant warmth, with shadows of deep amethyst.

A brazier at one end of a divan sent out waves of scented heat and a
candle on an ebony table burned like a trembling ruby.

A moment after the sound of the gong a little Chinese girl clad in green
silk slipped through a door, taking Tremaine’s coat and hat. Then she
melted into the amethyst shadows.

“Won’t—won’t you sit down?” the girl faltered.

Her face seemed suddenly swept free of all color; the eyes of night-blue
swam star-like in a mist of tears.

“You are ill!” he exclaimed, moving to her side.

At his words she sank on the caravan-cloth cushions of the divan, her
eyes dropping to the Khotan rug at her feet.

“Yes, ill in soul,” he heard her murmur.

For a moment she was silent, then lifted her eyes to him and spoke:

“You must overlook my queer actions, for you don’t know what I’ve
suffered, here in this terrible village —in the solitude, with only
Lotus-eye and Yashka as companions … . It has seemed a million hours …
.”

“But the Consul?” he queried, puzzled, “Surely—”

She made a gesture that expressed absolute futility.

“Gone—his secretary gone, and my brother, too—all three in the last
forty days … .”

“Forty days,” he echoed; “you’ve been in this God-forsaken place for
forty days?”

A shudder swept her. “Forty days—and the only white woman … living in a
house with three drink-crazed men, two Cossacks and a Chinese girl. Ah,
God, if you only knew!”

Very gently, with a tenderness that came to him suddenly, he took her
small hands in his, looking deep into the eyes of night-blue.

“But I want to know, Miriam Amber,” he said.

She summoned a smile. “The way you said that sounded like home. I live
in Richmond, Virginia.”

He, too, smiled.

“Richmond,” he repeated. “I live in Fredericksburg, so near you—yet—we
came to Tibet to meet. Strange these tricks that Chance plays—or is it
Chance? But you are in trouble and I want to hear about it.”

Once more she smiled. “Sit down. I’ll tell you over the tea-table … .”
Again the silvern gong—again the green-clad Lotus-eye, this time bearing
a tray which she placed on the little ebony table and retreated.

“I sent for you to ask you to help me,” announced Miriam Amber after
they were seated. “When you rode in this afternoon I felt that aid had
come, and I resolved to send for you, knowing that you could suggest
some plan. Now, that you’re here, I hardly know where to begin—”

She poured his tea for him and passed it to him. He accepted it
awkwardly, but she seemed not to notice this.

“My brother was a writer,” she began. “We left the United States a year
ago to travel in the East. After Egypt we visited the Holy Lands, went
from Damascus through Persia; across Turkestan and ancient Dsungaria
into Tibet. We were to end up in China—Peking, Hong Kong—and then home …
. My brother had an unfortunate habit—that of drinking—and after we left
Damascus a new passion for it seized him and he drank all he could
obtain—” Clouds settled in her eyes, dimming the night-blue.

“The incidents of our journey in Tibet would make up a book of
hardships. One late evening our little caravan rode into Tsagan-dhuntsa,
and the Russian Consul and his secretary, the only two white men in this
village of Sartang Mongols, invited us to stay at the Consulate. That
very night M. Grebin, the Consul, told us the story of the Valley of
Vanishing Men—rather, as the Chinese inhabitants call it, “T’sn chii ti
fang’—for that is the name by which Tsagan-dhuntsa is known to the
desert tribes.”

The clouds in her eyes darkened; for a brief instant the shadow of dread
lay upon her; then the fear was mastered.

“Twenty-four years ago, a Russian merchant and his wife from Kiachta,
traveling toward Dsungaria, took refuge from a storm in the Lamaserie at
the head of the Pass. In those days the monastery was not forbidden. The
following morning the merchant’s wife was found wounded— having been
attacked during the night by a vampire bat. The story goes that a week
later she died—and it is believed by the Chinese and Sartang Mongols
that her soul was reincarnated in the form of a ghoul—and returns to
feast upon men … . It’s only a horrid tale, but”—she shuddered—“but the
facts remain that once every two weeks a man of Tsagan-dhuntsa vanishes,
and no trace of him is ever found … .”

She leaned across the table, looking earnestly into his face.

“Do you think I’m mad? Perhaps I am—for sometimes I believe so. But to
go on with my story … . Every Consul sent here within the past five
years has disappeared—and they are supposed to be victims of the
ghoul-soul of the Russian woman.

“Unfortunately for my brother, Lance, M. Grebin, the late Consul, was a
drinker—and so was his secretary. During our stay, which ran into many
days, the three of them were often intoxicated—so intoxicated that they
were unconscious. Whenever this occurred I was alone with Lotus-eye, the
Consul’s servant, and the two Cossack guards, Yashka and Alexis. But
they were always very kind to me.

“The second week we were here, M. Grebin’s secretary disappeared— went
for a walk down by the lake and did not come back … . Then, two weeks
later, M. Grebin vanished in the same manner … . After that Alexis, the
Cossack, volunteered to go to Kurruk and appeal to the Consul there—and
he left. Lance, my brother, did not drink any after M. Grebin
disappeared. We were only remaining at the Consulate until Alexis
returned from Kurruk.

“Then—then came the night when Lance went—three nights ago. It was
snowing. About midnight I awakened and prompted by a peculiar psychic
feeling, I got up. As I did I could have sworn that I heard someone
singing, or wailing, out in the snow. I went into Lance’s room, which
was next to mine, and as I entered—he sprang up from his kang —and
jumped through the window!

I ran and leaned out—and as I did I heard an eerie, uncanny laugh … .

I called Yashka immediately and he searched—but it was useless, for the
snow destroyed all footprints.”

As she ended he thought he saw tears glistening in the night-blue eyes.

“That is all,” she said. “Alexis, who went to Kurruk, is overdue and I
am afraid he encountered Tangut robbers—or Dugpas … . Now you can
understand why I sent for you. But, listen—”

Once more she leaned across the table to him.

“I think I have a solution for the mystery of the Valley of Vanishing
Men … . The Lamaserie at the head of the Pass is like some few in the
North Gobi—in that a living representative of the Divine is reputed to
dwell therein. It is called the Monastery of The Shining One. Whether
this Shining One is a man or a woman none know—except the monks. And
only a comparatively few Lamas are cloistered there—a hundred or less.
They say The Shining One has never tasted food but lives by Divine
substance. In many of the Lamaseries of Tibet and the Gobi devilish
rituals are practiced—and in some, it is rumored, human sacrifice is
enacted—”

She halted significantly and their eyes met.

“Then you think—” he began.

"I don’t know. It merely occurred to me. I told Yashka, but he believes
it would be impossible to get into the Lamaserie—unless by force, and
that can not be done, he said, until Alexis returns. But, oh, I am
afraid to wait, for if—”

“The Lamaserie isn’t accessible?” Tremaine questioned.

“It is forbidden to all who are not of the faith. No white man has been
known to enter since the death of the Russian woman.”

“And you believe your brother is there—dead or alive ?”

Again she made that gesture of futility.

“God knows! Don’t you see, the idea was something tangible, and in my
grief I grasped it, hoping, praying that—” She swallowed hard.

“I understand,” he told her, “and I will try to think of a plan to get
in the Lamaserie and—”

“But I couldn’t let you take that risk—the odds would be against you.”

Tremaine smiled—an expression that lighted his frank, open face and his
wide gray eyes.

“There is little or no danger,” he assured her—which was not what he
thought.

“But you won’t try it tonight?”

“Darkness is better—and a minute lost might mean much.”

Her hands closed over his. He felt them trembling. Her eyes, too, seemed
to tremble—like deep blue stars … .

“No, I couldn’t allow you to do -that, I couldn’t! You have only known
me for a few minutes and—” “But we’re both from Virginia,” he
interposed, smiling yet solemn, “and you are alone—in trouble. Perhaps
your solution of the mystery is correct. And—and, you see, for four
months, traveling from Urga, with forbidden Lhassa as the objective,
I’ve journeyed—suffering the thirst and cold; listening to jackals and
wolves by night; seeing only brown and yellow women, with never the
sight of a white woman’s face—all these hardships on a gamble, to try
and penetrate the secret city. I’m a gambler through and through, and
now, for the sight of your face, the face of a white woman in all this
loneliness and desolation, I’m willing to play another game, to do
anything—to repay you for the sight of you.”

They had both risen, were standing face to face in the candle-glow and
the fragrant heat from the brazier hung like a spirit-hand between them.

“I think I understand,” she returned slowly; “but isn’t that a onesided
bargain?”

“But I want to pay that price—” He bent swiftly, caught her hand and
lifted it to his lips. It was an impulsive, boyish act, and afterward he
felt embarrassed. His face burned.

“I—I had better go now,” he stammered.

Miriam Amber struck the gong, and when the green-clad Chinese girl
appeared, instructed her to bring his coat and hat.

“Good-night, Travis Tremaine,” she said in that low, sweet voice, “I
shall be waiting here—when you come back … .”

The next he knew he was taking his coat and hat from Lotus-eye, was
leaving the room with the amethyst shadows, the face of Miriam Amber
burning before him like a white flame.

In front of the building he encountered the huge Cossack, Yashka,
standing under the lantern, smoking, the balalaika tucked under one arm.

“Looks as if one night is going to pass without snow,” observed the
American, his eyes upon the moon that was creeping up from behind the
ghost-like mountains.

The Cossack shrugged his big shoulders. “It may snow and it may not. Nie
znayu! I don’t know!”

Tremaine moved off.

“Good night, tovarishtchi,” he said over his shoulder.

“Good night, barin,” returned the Muscovite.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 2
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Monastery of The Shining One
{: .chaptertitle}

Upon reaching the caravanserai, Tremaine went immediately to his room,
where he found Shagdur warming himself over the argussun fire.

“Bring one of the camels with full equipment to the front immediately,”
he instructed. “No food necessary. I’ll be back before morning—perhaps.”

Shagdur stared. “You are not going to travel alone at night, master?
There are Tangut robbers in this region—”

“I can take care of myself,” he assured him.

As Shagdur left the room, Tremaine went to his camel-bags in one corner,
removing a box of matches, a dagger and an automatic, all of which he
placed in the inside pocket of his coat, and quitted the barren
bedchamber, making his way to the front of the khan to await the
caravan-bashi.

For some little time he paced the courtyard, his eyes frequently seeking
the white-washed Lamaserie, its spectral bulk now crowned by the rising
moon. The solitary light still gleamed from its sullen portals,
malevolently crimson.

At length Shagdur appeared, leading a tall, white bughra, or he-camel.

“You may occupy my room in the Rest House tonight,” Tremaine told him as
the camel knelt. “I’ll hardly be back before daylight.”

When the shaggy he-camel had regained his feet, Tremaine guided him past
the shadow-wrapped dwellings of the winding main street, around the
ice-crusted lake with its kamish plants and across the broad plain that
spread like a carpet before the ridges.

Here the caravan-road entered the fearsome jaws of Tsagan-dhuntsa Pass,
thrusting a narrow, crooked passage between lofty, towering walls of
solid stone, until near the snow-crowned peaks it skirted the Lamaserie
for the descent on the other side of the mountain; and Tremaine urged
his ungainly mount to a trot, leaving the sentinel-crags of the lower
pass behind and beginning the steep climb to the whitewashed monastery
with its leering eye of crimson.

By the time he reached the stone terraces of the Lamaserie, the moon had
abandoned its post above the peaks, swinging hawk-like into the clear,
cold sky and pouring its nacreous flood upon the ghostly, sprawling
monastery.

Not many yards from the main portal Tremaine’s journey ended and he
forced the bughra to kneel, slipping from his back to the ground.

He patted the gaunt, shaggy beast upon the neck—while with the other
hand he withdrew the dagger from his inside pocket.

“I’m damned sorry, old fellow,’’ he said, “but it’s for her—and you’re
willing to play the game for a white woman, aren’t you?”

Then with a quick movement he jerked the beast’s head back and at the
same instant the blade of the dagger flashed … . There followed a queer
sucking, gurgling sound, and something warm rushed over his hands.

Fighting against a terrible nausea, looking away from the dark liquid
that stained his hands, he deliberately slashed open the sleeve of his
sheepskin coat, and when the flesh was bare, the dagger flashed again.

His teeth ground together … but it was over now.

With trembling hands he cleaned the knife on his coat, returned the
weapon to his pocket, and walked with unsteady steps to the nearby
portal of the Lamaserie.

At the door he halted, pounding upon the heavy nail-studded panels.
After several minutes had passed without a reply he again knocked—this
time louder.

At last an answer—“Patience, brother, patience!”

The voice came from behind the portal, the words being spoken in the
Sartang Mongol dialect, a tongue with which Tremaine was familiar.

Presently there was the sound of a bolt being lifted and the door
opened, revealing, outlined upon a warmth of light, the form of an
emaciated yellow-robed Lama, a white silk scarf of the Order about his
neck.

“Peace be with thee!” was the yellow monk’s greeting. “What would’st
thou have of Amgon Lama of the Monastery of The Shining One?”

Tremaine fell against the doorframe in a position that would exhibit his
bloody arm to the Lama.

“Peace be with thee,” he returned. “I seek aid and shelter, brother.”

He felt the monk’s eyes searching him.

“I perceive thee to be wounded, brother,” he announced, “yet I have not
the authority to admit thee to the cloister—unless perchance thou art of
some other monastery?”

“The world is my monastery,” returned Tremaine, “but I am hurt, brother,
and can not reach the village below, for see”—he waved his hand towards
the camel’s carcass— “my beast is dead and I can walk no further. Above
the Pass Tangut robbers fell upon my caravan and killed my comrades. My
camel carried me this far before he went down. Surely thou wilt not turn
me away!”

The priest hesitated, then—“Even though I perceive thee to be in sore
need of succor, I can not allow thee to enter without the permission of
the Grand Lama. Stay here, brother, and perchance he will have
compassion upon thee.”

After the door closed behind the shaven-pated priest, Tremaine slipped
to the cold ground before the entrance, feigning unconsciousness.

Presently the door opened again. Following that Tremaine heard voices
and from beneath lowered lids he saw the Lama with the white silk scarf
emerge, accompanied by three others, the latter number wearing
mitre-shaped hats.

“His pains have caused him to swoon,” reported one; of the Lamas, having
bent over Tremaine. “Look ye, his camel lies yonder.”

After a moment of whispered consultation the four Lamas lifted Tremaine
and carried him inside the monastery. Following the harsh clang of the
closing portal, he was borne some distance—up flights of stairs and
through dark, incense-laden corridors—and at length placed upon
something cold and hard, a kang, he imagined.

Three of the Lamas retreated, leaving the fourth, the one with the
scarf, to light a candle and examine the American; and during this
performance it required great control on the par| of Tremaine, for a
single twitch of a muscle might have betrayed him.

Presently one of the monks returned bearing ointment, a cloth and a bowl
of water. The latter he passed to the other Lama and whilst the priest
of the white scarf held the receptacle he bathed and dressed the cut in
Tremaine’s arm.

When this was done they departed in silence, taking the candle and
closing the door easily behind them.

Tremaine opened wide his eyes. Instead of the darkness that he expected
as the natural result of the withdrawal of the light, a long iron-barred
window allowed the stream of moonlight to crust the floor beneath the
casement with pearl and bring into vague outline the walls and ceiling
of a small cell-like room. There was no furniture other than the kang
upon which he lay.

A raw chill pervaded the atmosphere, making him shiver and shake. Too,
the ordeal through which he had just passed had left him with a feeling
of physical weakness. He wondered if he would ever forget the piteous
whine of the camel … . A shudder swept him.

Rising from the stone bed, he crept to the door, his hand closing over
the knob. To his surprise the door was not bolted, but swung inward with
a mild whine of hinges, disclosing a gloom-strictured corridor.

As he started to step over the threshold his ears caught a faint
pat-pat-pat—a sound that suggested the padded footfalls of a feline
animal—coming from somewhere in the dark passage.

He drew back into the room, hesitated; closed the door and returned to
the kang.

He had scarcely stretched himself out upon the cold stone when from
beneath lowered lids he saw the door open slowly—saw a misty figure take
birth in the maw of darkness. His sensation, as the person entered, was
not unlike an electric shock, for, he perceived, it was a woman.

She wore something that coruscated in the moonlight and her hair, the
shade of a Tibetian night, was unbound in a black flood about her
shoulders. And the face! In the moonlight it was clear-cut, like a piece
of marble—an alluring manifestation of a hundred voices, a face more
wickedly lovely than any he had ever beheld. The lips were full, smears
of dark in the wan light, and flames of jet burned in the heavy- lidded
eyes.

She moved across the crusting of pearly light, her garments shimmering
sinisterly, and bent over him, her body radiating a warmth that was
sweet, like bruised sandalwood.

She laughed, the musical peals suggesting shattered crystals.

“My white mummy!” he heard her murmur in the Sartang Mongol dialect. Her
voice held a lure—promised paradise … and a sweet hell.

She bent lower over him, lower, until the fragrance of bruised
sandalwood dulled his senses into a lassitude.

“My mummy!”

Then she allowed her hand to caress his forehead and at the touch a
thousand electric volts sent a charge through his whole body.

“O white mummy!” she crooned, “Thy brow is crowned with the pallor of
flaming snows! I long to love thee, to smother thee with kisses, to let
thee perish in my embrace, but not tonight, O white mummy, another time
… .”

Her face sank lower … until her lips met his … and in that terrible
moment he was possessed of a desire to reach up and crush her to him, to
return the pressure of that mouth … .

Suddenly she sprang back, retreating into the full clarity of the moon.
The flames of jet in her eyes leaped high; her body grew rigid, tense;
she flung back her arms, the shining draperies spread as wings of woven
stars; and thus she stood for a brief instant, like a huge scintillating
bat above the throat of prey.

“Red—red … like burning rubies!” fell from her lips.

A look of hellish exultation swept her face—a typhoon of emotion. She
took a single step toward him, her eyes upon his arm where the skin was
slashed; then conquered herself by sheer force of will—a battle that was
evident in her face. He heard her teeth snap together.

The typhoon was spent.

She whirled; he saw the flash of her draperies … dust in the wake of a
silver tempest … and the door clanged shut.

Once more he was alone in the cell of the Lamaserie.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 3
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Shining One
{: .chaptertitle}

Cold perspiration stood out on Tremaine’s body. How he had been able to
master himself while she fawned over him he did not know, but he did
realize that he could not endure another such ordeal.

For a long time he lay there, his body quivering with reaction; and at
length he rose, determined upon a course of action.

Moving to the door, he lifted the latch. The ponderous portal swung
inward, revealing the blackness of the corridor—a sable flood that swam
visibly before his eyes. The black-dark suggested frightful things—
hidden horrors. His jaw tightened; he ground his teeth together.

Another step, a whine of unoiled hinges and it was done—the door closed
and he adrift in the fluid darkness.

He still wore the sheepskin coat; the dagger and the automatic rested in
his inside pocket; and his hand crept beneath the heavy garment, closing
over the cold steel of the revolver. Thus armed, his unengaged hand
extended to avoid a collision with any objects that might lurk in his
path, he started forward.

He had advanced not more than five yards when instinct warned him to
halt. His unengaged hand slipped into the pocket where the box of
matches lay; a mere instant—and following a splutter, a tiny blaze was
born in the Cimmerian blackness.

What he saw caused a vacant sensation in the pit of his stomach.

He was at the top of a flight of stairs that wound down into a well of
darkest night. He shuddered—and the match expired.

One hand slipping over the smooth wall, the other gripping the pistol,
he began the descent and after what seemed to him a deathless aeon of
downward steps, he emerged from the winding stairs into a corridor that
was half-lit by a flickering oil lamp in a niche in the wall.

Upon reaching, the end of the hall he found, on one side, huge
iron-hinged double-doors, and opposite them, another stair that sank
into deep oblivion. Here he halted, undecided which course to choose.

Stairway or doors?

The fearsome aspect of the former promised dark revelations. The
double-doors could come later … . He stepped into the mouth of the
stair.

The descent was steep, straight as a flame, and when he reached the
bottom he found himself again in a flood of sable. The atmosphere was
foul—smelled of freshly turned earth.

Once more he removed the matchbox from his pocket and ignited one.

With the small flare, a mere spark in a great void, he strained his
eyes.

At first he could make out only vague shapes, formless shadows; but soon
his vision became accustomed to the poor light and he beheld what was
evidently an unused chapel of the Lamaserie—a chapel that was fast
surrendering to ruin, the walls being broken and seamed and grown in
places with a loathsome fungi. The floor was strewn with rubbish and
broken stones, and along the center of the chapel, placed at regular
intervals, were twelve oblong boxes.

All this he glimpsed before the match went out.

He lit another immediately.

This time the twelve wooden boxes claimed his attention; they were all
the same size and shape and built like coffins.

To the nearest he moved, aware of a pregnant dread within him. The lid
was half off, thus revealing only a portion of the interior and its
contents; but that was enough to make him fall back a step, nauseated.

“God!”

The word left his tongue involuntarily.

Again he looked—to verify what he had first seen, hoping that some
sorcery of the shadows had fashioned in ironic jest the Thing that he
had beheld; but no; It was there … .

The match died, burning his fingertips.

“God!”

Again the word was wrung from his lips.

He struck another match and moved to the next box, peering in. He
repeated this performance until he had examined the entire twelve— and
the contents of each proved the same.

“*T’su chii ti fang!*” The Valley of Vanishing Men! He understood now
and the terrible truth spread like a deadly poison through his brain.

Miriam Amber’s words came back to him—

“They say The Shining One has never tasted food … .”

The Shining One! And who could The Shining One be but that dark-eyed
priestess of Hell who had bent over him in the room above?

The match expired. As darkness shut down upon him he resolved to
continue his explorations, to penetrate the mysteries beyond the
double-doors opposite the mouth of the stairway, and, if possible,
exterminate this monstrous menace to the world.

The Valley of Vanishing Men! The full horror of it sent his soul reeling
with nausea. That such a Thing existed on this earth he would not have
believed before.

He groped his way past the oblong boxes to the stairs, ascended to the
corridor where the oil lamp flickered in the niche in the wall, and
paused before the massive double-doors.

Suppose there were persons within, suppose … .

He steeled himself, lifted the bolt and the doors swung open under the
pressure of his weight.

A single glance showed the chamber to be without occupants—a vast
rectangular hall it was, from its appearance, a place of worship such as
he had seen in some of the Lamaseries of the Gobi and Northeastern
Tibet, its four walls ornamental with yak-horns and grotesque
devil-masks and hung with cloths woven of the hair of the yellow camel.
In the shadow-sunken corners, outside the intimate radiance of a
globular lamp that burned on a reed table in the center of the room,
were prayer-wheels and drums made of human skulls—myriad Lamist devices.

On one side of the grim apartment stood a black screen with the form of
the destroying god Varchuk embroidered in gold upon it, and opposite, on
the left of an iron door, a large lacquered chest was pushed against the
wall.

At the extreme end of the hall low steps rose between files of gray
urns—relics of the Shun-lai Imperialists—to the foot of crimson,
silver-threaded tapestries.

Tremaine first moved to the iron door. It opened readily and he stepped
out on a small balcony high on the walls of the monastery, overhanging a
dreadful chasm in the mountains—an abyss so deep, so shuddersome that
the moonlight failed to penetrate its fearful depths.

He withdrew from the balcony, closing the door behind him, and crossed
the hall of worship to the urn-lined steps. At the top he faced the
crimson, silver-threaded tapestries. Without hesitancy he gripped the
heavy cloths and jerked them aside, the movement rattling the rings from
which they hung. At his touch they seemed to spring apart.

A broad band of light cast from the gobular lamp fell over his shoulders
stretching to the side of a stone sarcophagus, and here shattering to
bits of argent; and into the illumination he moved, reaching the side of
the sarcophagus and bending over the form therein. As he looked he
throttled a cry, for the face, paler, older than when he had last seen
it, was the face of—Miriam Amber.

His whole body went numb—but the following instant he realized that it
was not she, that the body lying in the sarcophagus belonged to a man
clad in a long black robe, his thin hands clasped across his breast.

Such a likeness! The face was the same but for a suggestion of more
maturity, was, he knew, the face of her brother, Lance Amber.

Instinct prompted him to feel the heart. To his surprise, for the body
lay as one dead, it was throbbing. He was alive—but that thin, haggard
face! Something about it, tragically young, wrung his soul.

“Amber,” he called, “Amber! Can you hear me? Can you speak?”

He returned the revolver to his pocket and began to chafe the cold
hands. For fully ten minutes he employed various means to awaken the
man, but he remained in the repose of the dead, silent, motionless.

Tremaine was at loss what to do next. Several minutes passed as he stood
above the sarcophagus, his gaze wandering helplessly about the hall.

A faint sound aroused him to action—a sound that he identified with the
bolt outside the double-doors—and his eyes quickly searched the vast
chamber for a hiding place, finally alighting upon the black screen
embroidered with the likeness of Varchuk.

Hastily drawing the curtains together behind him, he moved down the
steps and attained the temporary security of the screen just as the
ponderous double-doors swung open.

A lone figure entered—a figure in a gown of Chinese gold tissue.
Tremaine caught his breath voluntarily, for it was the creature who had
bent over him while he lay in the cell.

Her gilded form seemed to swim in the glow of the globular lamp as she
drifted toward the crimson tapestries. Reaching the top of the steps,
she thrust apart the curtains and stood for an instant with her
draperies spread wing-fashion, looking down upon the man in the
sarcophagus; then she bent over him, her dark hair cascading about her
white neck, a laugh rippling from her lips.

“My king!” Tremaine heard her murmur in liquid tones.

Then she moved back, shoulders against the crimson tapestries, her eyes
upon the face in the sarcophagus.

“Come forth, O Moon-brow!” she commanded.

Tremaine watched breathlessly … .

Slowly, very slowly, the black clad figure in the sarcophagus sat up,
his face burning with an unearthly pallor in the shadowy alcove.

“Come, O my king!” continued the caressing voice.

With a dream-like movement Lance Amber abandoned the stone sarcophagus
and stood erect between the crimson tapestries, his eyes open, glassy,
his black robe dragging on the floor about his feet.

The woman in the Chinese gold tissue backed down the stairs, step by
step, never removing her eyes from those of the man, and with a slow
tread he followed … across the hall to the lacquered chest.

“Be seated!” she commanded.

He obeyed and as he sank on the chest she bent low—lower yet—until her
jet-black eyes were on a level with his … .

Tremaine, watching the strange performance from behind the screen, was
beginning to grasp a tangible solution for Amber’s condition.

Hypnosis!

This gold-robed woman exerted that power over her victims. He understood
now the lassitude that he had felt when she bent over him in the cell.

She was speaking again—“Now— awaken!”

At her evocation the eyes of Lance Amber lost the glassy expression,
became almost normal, and he lifted one thin white hand, passing it over
his brow—as if to wipe away the remaining tangles of a nightmare.

The woman laughed again, alluringly and low. He got to his feet, staring
at her.

“You, you again?” he said in the half drowsy voice of the recently
awakened sleeper. “Good God!”

“And why should not I be here, beloved ?”

Amber dropped on the chest, his haggard face falling in his hands, and
the woman knelt, locking her white arms about him.

“Art thou not glad to see me, O Moon-brow?” she purred, “Am not I fair
to look upon? Does not the sight of me stir in thee some flame of love?”

A sob broke from the man.

“Love you,” he echoed fiercely, thrusting her away, “Knowing you to be
what you are ?”

She only laughed—that siren laugh.

“I am white like thee, O Moon-brow,” she went on, “My mother was
white—was from a great country beyond Tibet, called Russia. This I know,
for the Lamas have told me of her, of her death here, in the monastery,
just after my birth ... O beloved, when I could have sent thee below
with my white mummies I let thee remain here—for I knew that we were
made for one another. Ah, Moon-brow, thou shalt be a king! Here I am
called The Shining One— I talk with the gods! Neither the Dalai Lama or
the Tashi Lama, nor that spineless fool at Urga, has so much power as I!
And I offer to share this glory with thee! To be the consort of The
Shining One! Does that not tempt thee?”

Again the man pushed her roughly away.

“Leave me alone to die!” he entreated piteously, “My God—love you! The
touch of you is like that of a leper! You are unclean, foul, accursed, a
creature damned!”

The fires of jet in her eyes rose. She laughed sharply. Her hands went
to her throat and unclasped a necklace of pigeon-blood rubies—a thing
that shone like threaded drops of fire.

“Ah, beloved, behold these!” she cried, extending the jewels to him; “In
the treasure vaults of the Lamaserie there are gems more costly than
these, jewels such as are rarely seen, and all are thine if—”

“Stop!” he fairly shrieked.

With a spring he got to his feet and snatched the necklace from her
hand, hurling it to the floor where it broke, scattering in tiny pools
of flame.

“God in heaven, leave me alone!” he shrilled. “You have undermined my
life, murdered my soul, kept me here in this damnable place until my
vitality is sucked up! Now for Christ’s sake let me die in peace!”

With that he struck her full in the face. She fell back, clutched at the
wall and lay panting against the cloth of camel-hair.

“Thou hast struck me!” she hissed, “Whereas before thou couldst have had
my love, now thou shalt know the anger of The Shining One ! Thou art
mine, body and soul, mine, dost thou hear? And I will take thee, break
thee and fling thy body to a death worse than the horrors of the
nethermost hell!”

Amber lunged at her, but she caught his arm, twisted it and sent him to
his knees. Her eyes burned emerald-like.

“Thou hast no strength to resist me, for I am The Shining One, the soul
of Tibet ... as beautiful as the moons, as fierce as a she-wolf! My
voice is like melted honey and when I call, men come from the furthest
ends of the earth … and I crush them ... as I will crush thee!” She was
forcing the white-faced Amber slowly to the floor, her eyes close to
his—and Tremaine, watching, hypnotized, for the time unable to act,
imagined he could feel the hot contamination of her breath upon his
cheek … .

“I—am—Tibet!” she panted in that sweet voice, “Thou hast resisted me and
I … shall … have … thy … blood!”

With a desperate wrench Amber broke free, staggering back against the
reed table whereon the lamp burned. The impact of his body sent the
fragile affair crashing to the floor, shattering the globular lamp in a
burst of flame … .

A shriek, terrible, inhuman, rent the air, congealing Tremaine’s blood.
“Ah, God, no … not that!”

Followed a groan—an animal snarl … .

Tremaine knocked aside the screen, drawing his revolver and moving
forward in the darkness. After a moment of blind groping his hand
touched something—the door-knob—and with a jerk he swung the door wide.

A sword of moonlight leaped through the oblong aperture, smiting the
sable shadows and falling in steely clarity across two figures—Amber and
the gold-robed woman.

As the light touched the creature, she reeled away from the man,
throwing her shoulders against the t wall, arms outflung, eyes blazing,
staring at Tremaine, who was out- I lined in the doorway.

He lifted his revolver—fired … .

With a scream of pain she hurled herself upon him. The jar of her body
knocked the revolver from his grasp—sent him upon his back on the floor
of the balcony; and locked together they rolled over and over, her hot
breath scorching his cheek.

By a sudden twist of his arm—the same twist that she had employed to
down Amber—she forced his shoulders to the floor, her eyes aflame, lips
parted, baring the white teeth. Her face sank low—lower … .

The touch of her was to him more revolting than contact with the most
loathsome viper … yet a sort of deadly lassitude was beginning to lock
its tentacles about him. He felt a sharp pain in his throat. That stung
him to greater effort and with a powerful wrench he freed one arm,
locking his fingers in her hair. She shrieked; loosened the vise upon
him.

He sprang to his feet, bent, caught her about the waist; lifted her and
swung her body through the air .... out over the balcony.

Another shriek ....

He clung to the railing, trembling violently, watching the Thing as it
shot straight down into the bowels of the awful chasm ....

He turned, stumbled into the hall.

As he entered a great clamor came from the double-doors. Through a blur
he saw them burst open admitting a flood of human beings. They were so
indistinct in the semidark that he could make out no details, but he
understood. The Lamas … .

He staggered out on the balcony, gripping the railing and trying to
steel himself for the encounter; but weakness drove home to him; his
bones seemed to melt within him, he slipped, to the floor; and before
unconsciousness closed its opaque doors upon him, he beheld a huge
bird-like creature winging its way out of the abyss, rising high in the
air and crossing the face of the moon.

It was an enormous bat.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 4
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### All The Way From Fredericksburg
{: .chaptertitle}

Life came back to Tremaine slowly, with a faint roaring and crackling.
As he opened his eyes he saw a vast blaze not far away, tongues of fire
that lapped hungrily at a dark curtain; saw the moon, too, above the
flames, seeming wreathed in smoke. Voices near him were talking.

He struggled to a sitting position, looking about dazedly.

“Ah, barin, at last you are awake—”

Following that the tangles in his vision were wiped away and he
recognized the speaker—Yashka, the Cossack. At the same time he
understood the flames and the voices.

A large group of men, all mounted on Tartar ponies and armed with
balalaikas and Cossack whips, were gathered around him, and above— for
they were near the foot of Tsagan-dhuntsa Pass—stood the whitewashed
Lamaserie, swathed in smoke and flames.

"Alexis arrived from Kurruk a short while ago with a detachment of
soldiers,” he heard Yashka telling him. “The Consul at Kurruk sent them.
The barishnya told us whither you had gone and we followed—and broke in
the Lamaserie. Nearly all the Lamas fled. Some were shot. We found the
barishnya’s brother in a large room and you on a balcony. Then we set
torches to the accursed monastery.”

“And what of Amber?” queried Tremaine.

“Bad wound in the throat,” returned the Cossack, “The Holy Virgin alone
knows what could have made such a nasty tear! But I think he will
recover. See”—he indicated a form that Tremaine had hitherto not
observed, lying several feet away —“there he is.”

Tremaine got up, still weak and unsteady, and moved to the outstretched
Amber.

“We’d better remove him to the Consulate,” he suggested, “Miss Amber
will be waiting.”

Yashka spoke to one of his comrades and the two Russians strapped the
body of Lance Amber upon the back of a Tartar pony.

“Vperycd! Advance!” cried the leader of the Cossacks, and the troops
moved down upon the plain.

Tremaine and Yashka followed on foot, the former leading the Tartar
pony. That walk across the valley seemed a dream to the American—a dream
that ended as they reached the Consulate.

\*\*\*

In the courtyard she was waiting, white with the stain of the dying
moon, the trembling stars reflected in her night-blue eyes, arms
outstretched to greet him.

“I wanted to go with them,” he heard her saying, “But Yashka made me
remain behind. It is always so— the woman behind. Tell me—”

Then she saw the form strapped to the saddle of the Tartar pony— darted
to it ... .

In a moment she turned back to Tremaine. In her eyes he glimpsed a light
such as he had rarely seen … even in the risen evening star.

“Travis Tremaine,” she said in that low, sweet voice, “God sent you—to
me—all the way from Fredericksburg!”

<p id="theend">~ The End ~
<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>