---
layout: short-stories
layoutTag: post
casefileNumber: 55ccf75fb3901011515aef37
title: "The Half-Asleep Girl"
author: William H. Kofoed
date: 2017-02-25
releasedate: 2017-04-08
opub: Black Mask
opubdate: Nov. 1920
opubissue: Vol. 2, No. 2
category: short-stories
excerpt: "Wealthy young Fleming Metcalf Knibbs is robbed by a sleepy-eyed young girl, he finds himself drawn to her and the mystery of who she is and what role she plays in the murder of John Ulrich, found dead in her invalid uncle’s room. Is she an innocent victim or a cold-blooded killer and thief?"
image: 
imgh: 300px
genre: Financial Mystery
tags: short-story
wordcount: 8780
trfissue: Vol. 2 No. 8
trfdate: Feb. 19, 2016
kindle: 
epub: 
---

<section id="toc" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h6>Table of Contents</h6>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
1. Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section> <!-- table-of-contents -->

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 1
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Girl
{: .chaptertitle}

The street was squalid, dirty.

On either side a row of rickety frame houses, leaning like drunken
sailors one upon the other, warned idle trespassers of the character of
the neighborhood. The few people who traversed it now in the autumn
twilight walked quickly and with many a furtive, sidewise glance, as
though in some ancient land of gnomes and ogres, where, behind every
wall, lurked an unknown horror.

That is, all but young Fleming Metcalf Knibbs. It is doubtful that
Knibbs could achieve the furtive if his life depended on it. He was one
of those straightforward chaps who insist that black is black, and, even
though a sizable check be the inducement, refuse to call it gray. Of
course, in reality, no check could possibly prove an inducement to young
Knibbs, as his private fortune was known to flirt with seven figures;
but the comparison is nonetheless illuminating on that account.

Nor was he without a sense of humor, or of balance: humor enough to
enjoy all phases of life, balance enough to realize that not in money
alone does one find happiness.

But his humor bordered on the romantic and adventurous, almost
indiscreetly so. He was given to prowling in little-frequented quarters,
and every now and again he would get himself in trouble, which he
enjoyed hugely.

Moving along the sordid thoroughfare, his ever-curious eyes taking in
its details, young Knibbs came at length to a house more rickety, if
possible, than the rest, whose door was at that moment slowly opening.
In the shadow he glimpsed white-stockinged ankles and slippers below a
dark skirt.

Knibbs was passing as the girl descended the steps. Her movements were
so softly gliding as to be almost ethereal, and, visualizing her as
emerging from a haze, he recalled a famous picture of a wood nymph
shrouded in twilight mist. At first her face was indistinct, then
suddenly he caught it, like a ray of light, and stood transfixed by its
strange charm.

And now he saw her quite unromantically catch the heel of one slipper on
the edge of a step and reach wildly for support. This impulsive movement
sent the other slipper flying through the air. It described a graceful
arc and landed on the sidewalk. The girl sat down heavily.

Fleming Knibbs congratulated himself on this heaven-sent opportunity to
acquaint himself with her, as he stooped and retrieved the itinerant
slipper. He turned, smiling pleasantly.

“Allow me,” he said, and fitted it to her unshod foot.

“Thank you.” Her voice was drowsy, as though it were early morning and
she had just arisen.

He looked at her sharply. “You’re not hurt?”

“Not at all,” she replied in the same monotone, getting to her feet. She
was an extremely pretty girl, Knibbs noted again, and wondered at
finding her in this contrasting environment. He fell in step beside her,
inquiring meanwhile if he might escort her to her destination.

“If you wish,” she conceded.

She was obviously tired, physically or mentally or both. Fleming’s
interest was intrigued.

And now they found themselves in a more populated section. The street
grew crooked. Situated in the tenderloin’s heart, it turned and twisted
convulsively, a veritable aorta of floating human derelicts writhing
toward the river and a cheap amusement park on its banks. But the girl
avoided the park, turning in an opposite direction. The crowd began to
thin out. At the last corner, across from innumerable shadowy wharves,
and reveling in an unaccountable river stench, stood a wobbly fruit
stand illuminated by a single flaring gas jet. Dirty, flimsy wooden
baskets containing all manner of fruits and vegetables tipped their rims
partly toward the curb and partly toward the dark heavens, while here
and there a shadowy head of cabbage peeped out upon this dreary vista.
On a soap box by the stand, and directly under the uncertain light, sat
a mere boy, thin of limb and vicious of feature, hunched intently over a
Yiddish newspaper.

They passed this last outpost of the underworld, Fleming’s curiosity
growing apace. On the left stretched acres of slimy marshes, and beyond,
only faintly discernible in the growing darkness, the river. It was too
much for young Knibbs. He stopped in his tracks.

“What—?” he began, and then his mouth opened in surprise and
astonishment, and he concluded “—the devil!"

For a blunt automatic had been thrust against his ribs, and the girl in
the dark skirt and white slippers was talking to him in her soft, sleepy
drawl: “Be still, or I shall have to shoot you.”

Then deliberately she set about “frisking” him. Her slender fingers
plucked his scarfpin, his watch and at length found the inner pocket of
his coat and his wallet.

She was talking again. “Now, then, stand as you are.” She began backing
away. “I am watching you. If you move an inch—”

The rest was left to be inferred. The click of her high heels on the
sidewalk grew less and less distinct until it became inaudible.

Whirling, Fleming Knibbs dashed toward the corner. No one was in sight.
The young Jew, as before, was hunched over his paper.

“A girl—” panted Knibbs. “She came in this direction. Have you seen
her?”

“I see no vun,” replied the boy, sourly; then, observing for the first
time the well-groomed man before him, his trade instincts arose to the
surface and he became suddenly ingratiating, "except" he emphasized,
rubbing his skinny hands in anticipation, “my customers.”

Fleming’s wallet was gone, but he still had some change. One hand went
readily to his pocket, emerging with a bright half-dollar.

“Here’s the price of a dozen apples, my boy,” he said. “Eat them
yourself. Now which way did she go?”

The youth pocketed his reward, pointing meanwhile to one of the numerous
small streets opening on the waterfront. Before he could speak Knibbs
was off.

Doing a hundred yards in eleven flat, he came to a thoroughfare with car
tracks. The girl was nowhere in sight. In the distance the vanishing
lights of a trolley winked at him derisively.

“Gone!” he exclaimed in disgust. Then, brightening: “But wasn’t she a
peach?”

He caught the next car, intending to return home. When seated, he
mentally inventoried his losses. There were several hundred dollars in
the wallet. The pin was worth five hundred and the watch another
hundred. All told, she had netted close to a thousand dollars. “Not bad,
for a half-asleep girl,” he commented to himself.

The thought occurred to him that the whole matter should be reported at
police headquarters, but in the instance he had strange scruples which
he himself could not explain. He tried to console his conscience by
emphasizing the fact that the loss meant nothing to him. Then he happily
remembered his friend, Simeon Dreer, of the murder squad, who was
occasionally willing, if caught in the mood, to aid his friends in
working out their little problems. He promptly left the car and took
another one cross-town.

Half an hour later he found himself in Dreer’s apartment. The little,
weazened man in huge green spectacles like twin railroad signals was
talking on the telephone when Knibbs entered.

“Very well. I shall go there immediately,” Fleming heard him say, and
his disappointment was keen, for he knew the old fellow was being called
out on a departmental case.

Simeon Dreer replaced the receiver on its hook and came toward Knibbs,
peering intently with his near-sighted eyes.

“Ah, it’s young Fleming Knibbs,” he said at length in the tone of a
discoverer. “Hello, Knibbs. Hello. Sorry I can’t entertain you; I’m
called out. Drop in tomorrow, eh? I’ve a couple of new records. A
serenade from *Les Millions d'Arlequin*, and—”

Dreer was a musical enthusiast with a pronounced leaning toward the
classical.

“I’ve been robbed,” announced Fleming, “and I thought perhaps—”

“Robbed?”

“Held up.”

“No! When?”

“Not an hour ago.”

“This is interesting. I should like to hear the details. As I said, I’m
called out on a case: supposed suicide which may be a murder; but if you
care to go along, we’ll talk about it on the way over.”

“Good. Let’s go.”

They were on the street in a jiffy. Knibbs hailed a taxi and leaped in
while wrinkled old Simeon Dreer confided his destination to the
chauffeur. Shortly they were bowling along at a good speed, with Dreer
sitting quietly listening to his guest’s story. When it had been
concluded, the murder squad man chuckled. By the weak light of the
street lamps Fleming saw his green glasses bobbing up and down.

“Very, very interesting, young Knibbs,” he commented, when his mirth had
subsided. “I shall look into it at the first opportunity. And on what
street, by the way, did you meet this fair highway woman?”

The moneyed young man slapped his knee sharply. “By Jove, I’m an
unobservant idiot. I can’t tell you the name of that street. I was too
busy soaking up its atmosphere.”

“You would know it if you saw it?”

“From a million. There’s nothing like it in the Western world.”

“I believe I know the one you mean. In fact—”

At that moment the taxi stopped jokingly.

Dreer threw open the door and clambered out.

“In fact, young Knibbs,” he called over his shoulder, “if you will look
around, I think you will find that you are on it now.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 2
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Street
{: .chaptertitle}

Knibbs emerged hurriedly. The old fellow was right. They were on the
very street in which his adventures had originated. And more. They were
facing the self-same rickety frame dwelling from which the half-asleep
girl had come not two hours before!

Simeon Dreer observed the fixity of his companion’s gaze, and inferred
the truth. “So this is her home, eh ?” he said softly. “Well—now we have
complications; for here, also, this evening, a suicide was committed.”

Fleming gripped the other’s arm convulsively.

“Not—not—the girl?” he whispered.

“Calm yourself,” replied Dreer. “It was a man—an elderly man—”

Fleming sighed his relief, then laughed at the absurdity of his interest
in her.

“I’m a romantic, susceptible, bred-in-the-bone fool,” he told himself as
he followed Dreer up the steps.

In the harrow, low-ceilinged entry— illuminated by a single gas jet,
flaring weirdly—they found a policeman on guard: a Swede, one Hjalmar
Yensen, with whom even Knibbs was acquainted.

“Good evening, Yensen,” said the murder squad man. “What’s been going on
here?”

“Ay don’ know. Somebody kill himself, Ay gass.”

“You were sent from headquarters merely to see that no one left the
house, eh?”

“Yeh. Ay ask skal Ay pinch somebody, an’ dey say, ‘Hal, no; leave dat to
Master Dreer.’ ”

“Very good,” nodded the weazened little fellow, his green spectacles
bobbing eagerly, for he was always eager when approaching a case that
promised difficulties. “Who’s upstairs?”

“Yust a cop an’ a doctor.”

“And the residents—the people of the house ?”

“Yeh. Ay forgot dem.”

Dreer waited for no more, but clattered up the uncarpeted stairs with
Fleming Metcalf Knibbs at his heels.

A light in the front room drew them.

They hurried past a bluecoat at the door and stood for a moment on the
threshold, taking in the scene.

The body, covered by a sheet, lay near a small table in a corner of the
room. In addition to the table were only two other articles of
furniture: one a bedstead on which reposed the gaunt figure of a man of
perhaps fifty, the other a chair; and seated on the chair, her eyes
partially closed, was Fleming’s half-asleep girl!

Knibbs drew in his breath sharply. The girl did not look up. She was
apparently unaware of their entrance.

The physician approached.

“I am Doctor Collier,” he said. “You are from headquarters, I take it?”

Simeon bobbed his green glasses again, peering up at the tall M. D. with
his little, near-sighted eyes. “Dreer’s my name,” he remarked. “There’s
a suicide here, I understand, doctor. What do you know of it?”

“Merely this: that the officer on the beat heard a cry and ran in here
to find this man—” he indicated the white-sheathed form on the
floor—“with a knife in his heart. I was summoned, pronounced the fellow
dead, and now your men are detaining me, in spite of the fact that I
have a practice waiting.” “One more question. About the man on the bed:
what’s his affliction?” “Paralysis.”

“Can’t move about?”

“Impossible. Only his neck and arms are free.”

“May I have your card?”

“Certainly.” The physician extracted one from his vest pocket, extending
it under the old fellow’s nose.

“Thank you. Haggerty, show the doctor out.” Dreer swung on his heel,
went to the bed and sat on its edge. “Tell me,” he requested of the
paralytic, “what happened here.”

The invalid passed a hand over his deeply set, black eyes, as though to
clear his vision. Then he removed it and waved it weakly toward the
corner.

“This man, John Ulrich,” lie began, “is my cousin. Like my daughter and
myself, he has seen much misfortune. He came in tonight broken-spirited
and stood at the foot of my bed and told me he was going to end it all.
I tried to reason with him, but he wouldn’t listen. On the table lay a
knife—one John had brought with him from the East Indies when he stoked
on a British steamer. He walked over and picked it up. Frightened, I
cried out at the top of my lungs, but that merely frenzied him, and he
drove the blade to its hilt in his breast. You know the rest.”

“And your daughter?”

“She was here at the time. Weren’t you, Lola?”

The girl nodded. It was no more than a tired little inclination of her
pretty head. Knibbs could not help pitying her.

The questions continued. “What is your name ?”

“Bastian De Brunner.”

“Blow long have you lived here?”

“Less than a month.”

“And previously?”

“Australia.”

“M-mm,” mumbled Dreer. Then he arose quickly, went to the corner and
threw the sheet aside.

The body of John Ulrich was fully six feet tall and solidly constructed.
His face, though somewhat distorted, revealed plain, rather commonplace
features under a shaggy beard. His shirt was darkly stained where the
knife had penetrated. The weapon itself, however, had been removed, and
lay on the table.

It was, from all the evidence, a plain case of suicide, motive poverty.
Yet doubt might be readily cast on the motive. For had not this girl,
Lola, returned earlier in the evening with upward of a thousand dollars
in loot taken forcibly from Fleming Metcalf Knibbs? Was it likely, with
this wealth in her possession, that she would allow a member of the
family to kill himself because of dire need? No, it wasn’t likely.
Still—

Simeon Dreer went to Knibbs and whispered: “Talk to her while I engage
her father. Ask her if she remembers you. Hint about the robbery and
watch her face.”

Fleming approached the girl, took her hand and drew her to one of the
small windows overlooking the street. By the light of a corner arc lamp
they could see, directly below, the half-rotted wooden steps on which
she had slipped.

Knibbs pressed her hand gently. She looked at him.

“Do you remember me?” he murmured.

“What?” Her tone was as listless as before.

“Do you remember having met me before?”

She gave a little negative shake of her sepia-crowned head. And then,
trailing after, a long-drawn “No-o-o.” Knibbs waxed a bit impatient.
This feminine Jesse James was either consummately clever or genuinely
half-asleep. Her features hadn’t yielded the slightest sign of
recognition. He decided to be more explicit.

“You know,” he said, “I was robbed this evening by—of all persons—a
pretty young lady—robbed of a watch and scarf pin and three hundred
dollars in currency.”

“Were you?” she sighed.

“Yes.”

“I’m sorry.”

“Are you really?”

“Yes.”

“Then, perhaps—” he lowered his voice still more—“perhaps you can tell
me where they are.”

She smiled very much as a child smiles in its sleep.

“How absurd,” she said. “I am not a clairvoyant.”

Fleming figuratively threw up his hands at the hopelessness of learning
anything from her. She was maddening. Without further questioning he
strode to the door. The detective, observing this, met him in the hall.

“Well, young Knibbs?” he queried, hopefully.

“She’s the image of original innocence—or original sin—God knows which.
Doesn’t know a blasted thing about my hold-up; never met me; and all
that. Oh, what’s the use?”

“A phrase not in my vocabulary,” replied Dreer. “Do you want me to
arrest her?”

“’Heavens, no! Send a girl—particularly as pretty a girl as she—to jail?
I’d rather lose a few thousand more than do that.”

“What do you want me to do?”

“Get my trinkets back.”

Dreer became speculative.

“She may have carried this thing out on her own initiative, without the
knowledge or consent of her parent, in which instance it’s hardly likely
she would bring the loot home with her,” he muttered. “She’s been to a
‘fence,’ no doubt. However, I’ll have Yensen search the house and report
to me tomorrow. There’s nothing we can do now, except perhaps make
undertaking arrangements. This other affair is plainly suicide.”

They filed down the stairway, pausing at its foot for another chat with
Hjalmar Yensen.

“My boy,” said Simeon Dreer to the big, raw-boned Swede, “I know you are
a careful, conscientious officer. I know you are thorough. And I have a
little job here that requires thoroughness more than anything else. It’s
only a side-light on the suicide, but it may succeed in recovering some
stolen personal property, and there’s always a reward attached to that
sort of thing, you know. Now, Yensen, I want you to search this shack
from cellar to garret for a diamond scarf pin shaped in a question mark,
a Gruen watch, and an alligator wallet containing three hundred dollars
in bills and a motor-car license made out to Fleming Metcalf Knibbs. Do
your best to uncover these or anything else of interest. Incidentally,
you might call in the matron from the Twenty-second District Station and
have the girl searched, preferably without the knowledge of her father.
When you are quite through, you and Haggerty may leave. Tell De Brunner
we hold his household blameless; that the evidence of suicide is
satisfactory to the department, and he will not be intruded upon again,
though, of course, the final judgment is in the coroner’s hands.
Meanwhile, we shall summon an undertaker. Good-bye.”

And they went out.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 3
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### A Meagre Clue
{: .chaptertitle}

Knibbs was awakened about nine o’clock the following morning by the
ringing of the telephone bell. He arose, grumbling between yawns, and
wended his barefooted way to the instrument.

“Hello!” he said briefly.

“That you, young Knibbs?” asked Dreer’s voice at the other end.

Fleming’s sleepiness vanished. Perhaps the old fellow had some
interesting information about his half-asleep girl, of whom he had
dreamed the whole night through.

“Yes, Mr. Dreer,” he replied. “What is it? A new development in our
case?”

“No; it’s about the suicide, but I knew you’d be interested—thought
you’d like to follow it up, you know, because—well, because the little
girl is tied up in it, and—”

“Yes, yes—of course. What have you found?”

“A meagre clue. It may and may not be of importance.” Dreer was always
modest. “If you care to come over, we’ll examine its possibilities
together.”

“But I thought the incident of the suicide was closed. I thought the
department was satisfied.”

“The department is never satisfied so long as a shadow of suspicion
remains undispelled. To be brutally frank, young Knibbs, there is a
possibility that Lola De Brunner murdered the man Ulrich!”

“No!”

“Yes—a possibility. I do not say it with assurance, and I hope, if only
because of your interest in her, that it proves untrue. But it is there
and cannot be avoided. As I said, if you care to come over—”

“Wait for me. I’ll be over in a jiffy,” cried Fleming.

He slammed the receiver on its hook, and a moment later was getting into
his clothes with reckless haste. The girl Lola had taken a peculiar hold
on him. Though the unusual circumstances of their meeting, not to
mention the depressing incidents which followed, were certainly not—on
their face, at least—of a nature to awaken the finer instincts, these
instincts were awakened, nevertheless, in Fleming Knibbs, and, coming to
analyze it that beautiful September morning, he concluded that it was so
because there was something real about this girl that rose above the
most damning facts, refuting them.

In brief, anything bad she had done wasn’t true. He clung to this
assertion because it was the only ground on which he could
satisfactorily explain his attraction to her. He knew he wouldn’t be
drawn to a girl essentially bad; ergo folks had merely gotten the wrong
angle on her acts and misunderstood them.

True, he had a difficult mental battle maintaining this stand.
Inevitable logic came forward again and again, arguing: “If a man
approached you on the street, thrust a gun in your face, and relieved
you of your valuables, he would be a thief, wouldn’t he—a common
highwayman? If a girl—no matter how pretty—does the same thing, is she
not a thief also?” That was a stumper. Knibbs had to find a way to
answer *No* so that he would believe it. And he did. But how he did is
beyond the comprehension of any save those who, too, are under the spell
of some lovely young woman.

Fleming Knibbs sacrificed breakfast that morning in his eagerness to see
Dreer. Just forty-five minutes elapsed between the ringing of his ’phone
and the instant he walked, unannounced, into the detective’s strangely
cluttered library.

Simeon Dreer was seated with his ear close to the phonograph, listening
dreamily to the strains of *Les Millions d'Arlequin*. As his visitor
entered, he raised his hand, without turning, in a request for silence.

Knibbs sat down and waited impatiently for the music to cease.

When it did, finally, Dreer, muttering “beautiful, beautiful,” put the
record away with great care and deliberation before joining his guest.

Then, fumbling in his pocket, he brought forth an envelope.

“This,” he said, “was found by my good friend Yensen, and earned him a
five-dollar bill.”

“And this was all he found?” queried Knibbs. “No sign of the watch or
scarf pin?”

“None. The girl asked him, you see, to help move her father to a back
room, which he did. Afterward he discovered this missive under the
pillow. Tactfully maintaining silence, he brought it to me. Of your
trinkets, however, young Knibbs, there was not a sign.”

Fleming looked at the envelope. It was addressed in a rangy scrawl to
Bastian De Brunner and bore an Australian postmark dated six weeks
earlier. Within was a sheet of linen letter paper. He drew it out and
read:

> *Dear Bastian,*
>
> *By the time this arrives you should he snugly fixed in your new
> quarters. I have no difficulty picturing you there; silent, of course;
> perhaps even brooding, but just as active in thought as ever.*
>
> *How is Lola? Ask her, for me, if the trans-Pacific trip succeeded in
> lessening the intensity of her hatred for our mutual friend John
> Ulrich?*
>
> *I am still with the old Smith & Townsend outfit, though I’ll admit
> the routine is getting to be drudgery. Some day I may clear out for
> the States myself. In which event, you may be sure I’ll look you 'up.*
>
> *Trusting your health is improving, I remain*
>
> *Your friend and admirer,*
>
> *Cassius Wynn.*

Knibbs glanced at Simeon Dreer, frowning. “So you think, because she
entertained a dislike for the man Ulrich, that she killed him, and that
her father is protecting her with his suicide story?”

“A natural assumption, isn’t it?” Fleming, being reluctant to admit it,
remained silent.

“Young Knibbs,” continued Simeon, “at what hour did this girl hold you
up?”

“About nine, I should judge.”

“And how long do you think it would take her to return home from that
spot, provided she went directly by trolley?”

“No more than fifteen minutes.”

“Then she could have been home at nine-fifteen?”

“Easily.”

“You’ve considered, I suppose, that the stabbing occurred at
nine-twenty?”

Fleming avoided the detective's gaze. He felt that by defending the girl
he was putting himself in an awkward position, yet in his heart he knew
he would go on defending her to the end. And the end ? What would it be
? Finally, seeking an argument on which to pin his dwindling hope, he
asked: “How can you be so sure of your time ?”

“Easily. There’s a small grocery store on the corner, and in its window
hangs a clock which Officer Haggerty is in the habit of consulting as he
swings around his beat. It was exactly nine-twenty by that clock when,
as he passed the window, he heard De Brunner’s cry. Lola, it would
appear, had been home five minutes.”

Knibbs winced; then suddenly struck by an idea he leaped to his feet.
“But if she returned directly home after leaving me, the stolen property
must have been in her possession,” he cried. “And as it wasn’t in her
possession, she couldn’t have returned directly home, and must have
arrived after the deed was done. That clears her of all suspicion.”

He sat down in an exultant glow.

Dreer lay back in his chair and laughed heartily. His green glasses
flashed in the morning sunlight pouring through the open window.

“The profession lost a genius when you took to clipping coupons for a
life work,” he chuckled. “My boy, consider these facts: all ‘fences’ do
not live miles away from their co-workers. They may even live
conveniently near. In which event the girl could have dropped in without
losing more than a minute or two. Besides, it would be foolish for
either of us to try to prove her absence at the time of the tragedy, for
in addition to her father averring her presence, Haggerty found her in
the room when he entered. My chief reason for questioning you concerning
the hour of the hold-up was to establish a limited area in which her
‘fence’ might be located. For I believe she employed a ‘fence.’ He may,
really, be more guilty than she. And if we find him it may lead to a
clearing of the whole mystery. I am beginning to sense a link between
the robbery and the stabbing; and I’m glad, after all, that you didn’t
allow me to arrest her last night. Now she can he watched. You know,
young Knibbs, the musty old saying: murder will out.”

Fleming was decidedly pale.

“I think you do her an injustice,” he muttered.

“That’s just what I’m trying not to do. If she isn’t guilty of
wrongdoing she deserves to be cleared in our sight. And if she is—”

He left the rest to be inferred, and on the whole it carried a sinister
meaning with the shadow of the dreaded “chair” looming in the
background.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 4
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Housewives’ Tales
{: .chaptertitle}

Knibbs left his friend Dreer’s apartment in a depressed frame of mind.
He felt that if his half-asleep girl proved as black as circumstances
had painted her he could no longer entertain faith in humankind. Also,
in this indigo mood, he nursed a slight resentfulness toward Dreer for
casting additional suspicion upon her, and reflecting deprecatingly upon
his deductive ability.

He would show the old fellow. This affair wasn’t over yet. The truth was
still hidden from them. Thus steeped in his musings, and not fully
realizing what he was doing, he signaled a passing taxi.

Within, he sat chewing the cud of his thoughts as the constricted city
landscape flashed by. Twenty minutes passed. At length he felt the
machine stop, and heard the chauffeur’s voice, “Here you are, sir.”

He looked up. The taxi was standing before the little grocery store
which Dreer had described. Then Fleming Knibbs remembered that, with
some vague idea of accumulating additional facts, he had ordered to be
driven into Lola’s neighborhood.

He paid the man and stood idly watching him drive away. He didn’t quite
know what to do, where to begin. Uncertain as he was, he started to walk
around the block, hoping a course would suggest itself. He passed the
shabby De Brunner residence slowly. There was crepe on the door, and the
worn green shades in the front room were drawn to a level with the
slightly opened windows. At the next corner he swung to the right.
Shortly he came to an alley lined with drunken fences and battered slop
cans. On the impulse he entered it. He knew he would find the De Brunner
backyard somewhere along here. As to what he would do when he reached it
he hadn’t the faintest idea.

There were two stout women in faded gingham house dresses and aprons
standing at a gate directly behind De Brunner’s. As Knibbs neared them
he caught snatches of their conversation. They were talking of the
tragedy.

Fleming took his nerve in hand.

“Pardon, ladies,” he interrupted. “I understand there was a suicide in
the neighborhood—”

“You’re right there was,” responded the more garrulous of the pair,
apparently glad for the opportunity to air what she knew. “In that house
there—right in front of you. They just moved in the other day, an’ now
one of ’ern’s gone a-ready. Stabbed his-self. I heard the paralytic yell
when he did it. An’ then two men came run-nin’ out the back gate.
‘Somethin’s wrong,’ I told meself; an’ sure enough I was right. They was
goin’ for the doctor, I guess, an’—”

“Well, well—too bad,” commented the young man, restraining his
excitement with difficulty as the last fact made itself known. “Did they
return quickly?”

“I dunno. But they’re back now. I saw ’em in the yard this mornin’.”

“Too bad,” repeated Knibbs, simulating the idle sympathy of the
curiosity seeker. “However, such things are happening continually,
aren’t they?”

And nodding and tipping his hat he moved on, picking his way between
cans until he again reached the end of the alley. But he looked
cautiously back within a few minutes, and, finding the women gone,
retraced his steps.

At the De Brunner gate he found, luckily, no bolts to hinder his
progress, and entered quickly. All he wanted was a surreptitious look at
the two men who had projected themselves into the drama, so that, should
the occasion arise, he might identify them. He walked softly to the
kitchen window and peered within. The room was empty.

Then, suddenly, he felt his ankles seized, and he fell, and was jerked
through a narrow window into the dark, evil-smelling cellar. And before
his senses had regained their equilibrium, his arms were trussed behind
him with a strip of clothes-line.

He heard a coarse laugh. “Well, fella, that time yuh got fresh once too
often, didn’t yuh?”

At this moment the cellar door opened and a voice muttered:

“What’s wrong down there, Belden? Why the racket?”

“Caught a snooper, Jim,” retorted Fleming’s assailant, triumphantly.

“No!”

“Uh-huh.”

“Bring him up.”

Knibbs’s arm was seized in a rough grasp and he was thrust through the
darkness. With the other man behind him, prodding, he marched up the
stairs into the kitchen.

Now he could see the two men clearly. His captor was a short, stocky
fellow with a bull neck, pugnacious jaw, and close-cropped red hair. A
typical prize fighter. The other—a tall, lean chap—affected a little
mustache above a pair of hard lips, and a stock around his neck.

The lean one faced him. “What’s the big idea?” he demanded. “Come on,
now—talk. What business have you here?”

This was another poser for Knibbs. He knew he had exceeded his rights by
prowling around the place. Of course, he was doing it for the girl’s
sake, but he couldn’t tell them that. What could he tell them?

“It seems I struck the wrong place—” he began.

“Ha! Ha! Ha! I guess it does seem that way now, doesn’t it? Pretty weak;
pretty weak. You'll have to do better than that.”

“What will you do if I don’t try— turn me over to the police?”

“Not a chance. That would be an easy way out for you, wouldn’t it?” He
'winked, slyly. “No, fella, unless you can explain, I imagine old De
Brunner will keep you here awhile. He likes company, and he has a way
with him that may win a confession from you. Suppose you come with me
and see him now.”

With the lean man leading and “red head” bringing up in the rear, they
trailed upstairs to a back bedroom. Bastian De Brunner, the paralytic,
lay with several pillows propped under his head reading a newspaper. He
looked up as they entered.

“We caught this fella,” said the tall one, as though he had had a hand
in it, “prowling in the yard.”

With his deeply set, dark eyes De Brunner studied Fleming Knibbs. “You
were here last night, weren’t you?” he asked.

Knibbs refused to answer, though he knew the sick man was not deceived.

“What do you want?” De Brunner continued.

Still Knibbs maintained his silence.

“Bring him here.” The command came in a hard, inflexible tone from among
the pillows. The lean spokesman and his companion leaped to obey. They
half carried Knibbs to a chair beside the bed. Fleming found himself
looking squarely into De Brunner’s eyes.

“Go,” said the paralytic to the two men lingering in the background.
They went.

Knibbs felt the other’s eyes boring into him, and he glared back
defiantly. No words were spoken. It was a battle of minds. De Brunner’s
pupils seemed to glow like coals and his whole attitude was of striving
for domination.

It came to Fleming at that dramatic moment, as he fought back, that
Bastian De Brunner possessed hypnotic power, and a thrill of fear
coursed through him. He suppressed it quickly, concentrating every force
into his staring eyes. He must hold his own. He must not allow himself
to fall under the spell.

Absolute silence prevailed in the room.

Slowly Knibbs became conscious of a numbness in the legs. It grew upon
him an inch at a time, crawling like a snake past the knee and upward.
He became desperate, frantic. He tried to shout for help, but no sound
issued from his lips. He tried to tear himself from the chair and dash
from the room, but his muscles were immovable, refusing to obey the
mental impulse. Vaguely Knibbs marveled at this. It always had been his
impression that hypnotic control of an unwilling subject was impossible.
Obviously De Brunner possessed an extraordinary power.

Then a sudden calmness swept over him as he realized that fear would
only undermine his resistance, thus adding to the other’s strength.
Though this was his first experience with hypnosis—and he was
accordingly handicapped by a natural awe of mysterious, unknown
forces—he now coolly rallied all his faculties to defense, and once
again clearly met De Brunner’s gaze.

And then the door opened and Lola entered bearing a tray.

It was this interruption plus Fleming’s rally that spelled defeat for
the paralytic’s initial stupendous attempt at controlling his captive’s
mind. Without a word he removed his gaze and sank deeper among the
pillows. “Send Jim up,” he said in a normal voice.

Lola set the tray on a bureau and, going to the door, called softly
below.

Shortly the tall, thin-lipped fellow sauntered in.

“Make this man secure in the next room,” ordered de Brunner. “I want to
see him later. Needn’t gag him unless he gets noisy.”

The chap called Jim yanked Knibbs to his feet; and then they were in a
small, bare room furnished only with a cot. Silently Jim pushed his
helpless charge on the cot, stretched him out at full length and made
him fast to the frame with stout ropes ably knotted.

“Guess that’ll hold you awhile,” he grinned as he departed.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 5
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### As In A Dream
{: .chaptertitle}

Knibbs lay there the balance of the morning and far into the afternoon.
Occasional footsteps passed the door, going to or coming from the back
room. Then there was a prolonged silence and Knibbs thought he detected
snoring.

Fleming’s position had now become not only irksome but decidedly
uncomfortable. He was stiff from lying so long in one position and his
legs and arms ached where the ropes had chafed them; for he had done
considerable twisting and straining in spasmodic endeavors to free
himself. Quiet having descended upon the mysterious household, he
determined to make one last great attempt toward this end. Gathering all
his reserve force in the effort, he drew his arms together and his knees
up. The ropes held. He increased the tension gradually…and felt a thrill
of exultation. His right arm was loose; his freedom remained but a
matter of minutes.

Fleming Knibbs was casting off the last of his shackles when his
anxious, roving eye observed the door opening silently. Transfixed with
horror, he waited.

A figure slipped in and approached the cot. It was Lola. Knibbs breathed
easier. He arose and held her arms. “Why are you here?” he whispered.
“What do you want?” For a moment, in his highly excited state, he
doubted her. The next moment he was ashamed of himself.

“I’ve come to help you,” she replied softly. “De Brunner is asleep. Jim
and Belden have gone to hire an auto. They intend removing you to a
place where there will be less likelihood of the police finding you. By
your attitude and appearance, De Brunner believes you a wealthy
man-about-town who finds sport in traveling around with detectives. And
he has designs on you—just what I do not know. He may hold you for
ransom. Or it may be that he intends gaining mental control of you—as he
has me. He’s—he’s the devil incarnate!” she concluded vehemently. “You
must escape him.”

“But—isn’t he—your father?”

“Thank God, no! I was once, at least, of a good Belgian family—the
family of Langlois. But I lost everyone and everything I held dear early
in the war. Distracted, I fled to Australia, where I obtained employment
as secretary to the manager of the Smith & Townsend circus. It was
before the full seriousness of the war had been realized and many men,
particularly the older ones, had no thought of entering service. De
Brunner was one of these. He was a versatile performer—a daredevil who
provided half a dozen acts. But one day he took a chance too many, and
dropped from a trapeze, injuring his spine. It was then he fell back
upon and developed a latent hypnotic j power, and I became his slave,
doing his bidding, no matter what. Oh, I ; hate it! I hate it! If I,
too, could only j escape! But I cannot. He controls my body and my soul,
and I am fearful of him.”

Deeply interested and excited by this I personal narrative from the girl
whose sweet face he had learned to adore, Knibbs forgot his
surroundings, forgot his desire to escape and the need of haste, and
probed for more. “When you are under the spell, are you fully aware of
what you are doing, Lola?” He used her name reverently.

“Yes; but faintly, as in a dream. Oh, I know I robbed you. I recall the
details—hazily. But I could not tell you last night—with De Brunner
there, and the officers.”

“Being unable to do so himself, he intends using you to carry out his
criminal designs, making you his unwilling automaton, and hiding from
the law behind your skirts. Isn’t that it?”

She shrank back as though struck: then, strangling a sob, braced
herself. “Of course. It is plain. Yet no matter how much I fear the
consequences of my acts, I fear him more. Oh—I—I wish I were—dead!”

“Please don’t say that. Things will come out right. They must. Tell me,
Lola, have you—committed many—ah —crimes at his bidding?”

She sighed with relief. “No; yours was the first. It seems the idea did
not occur to him until he decided to come to America. I think perhaps
Jim put it in his head. Jim and ‘Red’ Belden were canvasmen—rough as
they come. And when De Brunner’s savings were exhausted—”

“I see. But who was the other man—this John Ulrich, who—who died last
night?”

“He, too, was a student of hypnosis —a complacent hypocrite I have
always detested. De Brunner became acquainted with him in Melbourne.
Another circus man, Cassius Wynn, introduced them. It may be, too, that
the idea of crime through hypnotic control originated in him, or in
Wynn. I cannot say. But De Brunner was master of them all, despite his
infirmity. And somehow he found in me his most pliant subject.”

“Tell me one more thing, Lola. Did John Ulrich commit suicide, or was he
murdered?”

“I do not know,” she said, looking at him with frank eyes, and he knew
she spoke the truth, but he was no less uneasy, for he believed he knew
now what had transpired the night before. “I had just returned and in a
sort of stupor was mounting the steps when someone screamed. I went in
and lay the loot on the bed. Jim and Belden were standing staring down
at Ulrich. De Brunner said something in a sharp tone; then Jim took the
loot and both of them went out quickly. I saw no more of them until this
morning.”

Knibbs welcomed the projection of other suspects on the scene. It
relieved him to think that, if Ulrich was knifed, either of the
ex-circus men might have had a hand in it. But he had recurrent thrills
of fear. For it may have been that Lola’s remembrance of that waking
dream was incorrect—and that, after all, she had committed— No, no!
Heaven forbid!

He took a short step toward her. “I think I hear someone at the front
door,” he hissed. “Let’s get out of here. No, I’ll not go alone. You
must come, too, Lola. I’ll care for you. I’ll—”

“No. It is impossible. … You were right. There is someone below. Hurry!”

“You—”

“Oh, if I only might! But I cannot. I feel those invisible ties and
they’re— too strong—for me. Go now, please.” The closing of the
vestibule door reached them distinctly. There was need of haste. Knibbs
cast one last pleading look at the girl, saw the uselessness of
petitioning her further, and, determining to return later with the
police department at his back, stooped and kissed her full upon the
lips. Then he threw open the door and stepped into the hall.

He had delayed a bit too long. He stepped squarely in the path of the
two canvasmen.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 6
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Paralytic Talent
{: .chaptertitle}

And then Knibbs had his hands full. He met Jim—the lean fellow affecting
the Chaplin mustache—with a crashing blow in the face that sent him
reeling back against his companion. And he followed this up, launching
himself like a tiger at the other’s throat. He made the silk stock his
target, hoping, incidentally, that the force of his attack would carry
them both to the floor. But unfortunately Belden had braced himself
against the balustrade, which caused the whole tide of battle to turn.

Jim met his leap squarely, and shortly both were on him.

There was a crash, a great tangle of flashing arms and legs on the
floor, the sound of blows, and at intervals above it all the awakened
paralytic’s voice calling to Lola.

Knibbs was putting up the fight of his life. And the fact that glorified
his efforts was that he was not fighting for himself alone. It wasn’t
only that he defended himself against kidnapping or resisted being
trussed again on that cot. It was something bigger and finer.
Substantially, he was fighting for the woman he loved.

But it was a losing fight. Belden, being a bred-in-the-bone pug, and
lean Jim having been thoroughly educated in toughness—an education
incomplete without a working knowledge of the fistic art—Knibbs’ chances
were on the short end. Already his nose was bleeding and his chin
gashed.

Then they piled upon him as in a football game, crushing out his breath;
and he felt his surroundings slipping away, when the unexpected
happened.

To Fleming Metcalf Knibbs, prone on the hall floor with the two
ex-circus men belaboring him, the events which transpired now appeared
more than ever dream-like. The rickety front door was thrust inward and
an avalanche of rushing footsteps came to his ears. The pressure on his
throat and chest was suddenly relieved, and as he moved his head weakly
he saw Simeon Dreer, of the murder squad, looking down at him through
his ridiculously large green spectacles, while all around swarmed
blue-coated and brass-buttoned forms.

“Hoo-ray!” cheered Knibbs weakly, staring back at Dreer with a silly
smile. He felt that he ought to get up and welcome his rescuers, but for
the life of him he couldn’t move a muscle.

At an order from Dreer, an officer got him under the arms; and then he
found himself standing on shaking, uncertain legs, one hand on the
balustrade post, the other moving across his forehead. Slowly his
faculties revived.

Out of the little room came Officer Yensen, holding Lola tightly by the
arm.

Knibbs saw red.

“Release that lady,” he bellowed, or tried to bellow, for he was still
too weak to achieve the real thing. Yensen looked uncertainly first at
Knibbs then at Simeon Dreer.

Simeon smiled tolerantly. “Do as the gentleman requests, Yensen,” he
said.

It was done; whereat those remaining in the hall proceeded to the rear
room where the discomfited ruffians and their leader were under guard.

“A charming gathering,” commented Dreer. “At what hour is tea served?”

“Sir, your sarcasm is anything but appropriate,” said the paralytic from
among his pillows, pretending righteous indignation, though his face was
livid with wrath. “By what right do you force your way into my home—at
this very moment a house of death?”

Dreer maintained his nonchalance. “If it were not a house of death I
should not be here,” he replied, “though it appears fortunate for Mr.
Knibbs that I happened along when I did. However, his rescue was
incidental and secondary. I have come after the murderer of John
Ulrich!”

“The murderer of Ulrich! What do you mean?”

“My English is clear, I believe. I’m sure you understand me, De Brunner.
If not, I shall be more harshly explicit. There’s an ambulance waiting
outside to take you away. There’s a police patrol, too; and I might add,
if I may be so indelicate, that were you not bedridden, you’d ride in
the latter.”

“You charge me—”

“Sure. With the murder of John Ulrich.”

“Ridiculous.” De Brunner’s eyes narrowed to pin points.

“Not altogether,” continued Simeon, calmly. “You won’t deny, I take it,
that you were once a circus performer—a versatile person, as clever on
the trapeze as at knife throwing!—”

He paused impressively.

The paralytic’s face blanched.

“I see you’re on,” he snarled. “How you did it I don’t know and don’t
care. You’re a clever devil yourself. But neither you nor the
commonwealth shall have the satisfaction of
administering—my—punishment—”

It was over in a trice. They saw his hand move quickly, convulsively,
under the sheet. A spasm of pain crossed his face. His head jerked up.
The muscles of his neck and shoulders tensed. For a moment great
physical strain was apparent there. Then he relaxed and his head rolled
to one side.

Dreer leaped forward and threw back the covers. Evidence of Bastian De
Brunner’s act was sickeningly apparent. A dagger—the very one Ulrich was
reputed to have brought from India—was plunged to the hilt in his side.
Quickly removing it, he drew the sheet up over the still form.

“The state is satisfied,” he said.

\*\*\*

“But how—?” began Fleming Metcalf Knibbs for the hundredth time.

They were in Dreer’s cluttered apartment. Lola Langlois was seated in
one of the spacious chairs, with Fleming draped over its arm, gazing
longingly down upon her. He had looked up just long enough to put his
question to Dreer.

The little man tinkered with his green spectacles a moment before
replying.

“I hardly know whether to tell you or not,” he said. “The truth is I
shall probably sacrifice my professional reputation in your eyes by
doing so. For the whole thing was so absurdly simple. You see, young
Knibbs, after you left this morning I made a second careful examination
of De Brunner’s letter from Cassius Wynn and found the envelope not torn
open but carefully cut. That implied one thing, didn’t it—that De
Brunner opened his mail with a knife? Of course, to do that, he has had
at times a knife in bed with him. Suggestive, eh? But not complete.
Doctor Collier’s statement now returned to me: that although paralyzed
De Brunner’s arms were free. Further illumination came when I learned
upon inquiry that Smith & Townsend was not the name of a mercantile
house but of a traveling circus. Some showmen in town supplied me with
final details. They remembered Bastian De Brunner and his knife-throwing
act. What more would the densest sleuth require? Immediately a picture
of John Ulrich disputing De Brunner’s power suggested itself. Perhaps
Ulrich threatened to expose him to the police. At any rate a lost temper
and a hurtling knife terminated the incident in tragedy. It was Ulrich’s
death cry, not a call for help from De Brunner, that brought the police.
And there you have it. You, young Knibbs, supplied equally as important
information as I, however, in learning of this strange fellow’s criminal
intentions.”

Dreer arose abruptly and went to the phonograph and shortly the strains
of *Les Millions D'Arlequin* filled the room. Sitting raptly by the
instrument he drank in every note.

After a moment he appeared to have been struck by a thought.
Unexpectedly, he cut the record off in its prime, and, stealing a side
glance at the youth and maid, now busily engaged in whispered
conversation, he left the room.

Exactly twenty minutes later his apartment bell rang. Of which, also,
Fleming Knibbs and Lola were blissfully unaware.

Then Dreer’s green spectacles poked their way through the door. Fleming
had his half-asleep girl in his arms— no longer half asleep, however,
for her lips were pressed to his in passionate surrender. The little man
said later he never saw, and never expected to see again, so beautiful,
so colorful a picture.

He coughed.

“Come in,” said Knibbs, without looking up.

“It’s Hjalmar Yensen below,” explained Simeon. “He says ‘Red’ Belden and
the man called Jim confessed to making off with your personal property
and named the ‘fence’ they had employed. He has recovered everything,
young Knibbs, and wants to see you.”

“Can’t,” replied Fleming, briefly, giving the chair a hitch so that its
back was now to the door. “I’m busy. Tell him to leave the Ingersoll and
scarf pin in your care. As for the wallet—let him keep it.”

“And its contents?”

“Of course.”

“Whew!”

“And Dreer—”

“Yes?”

“Invite him to the wedding. We can have him watch the gifts, you know.”

<p id="theend">~ The End ~
<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>