---
layout: short-stories
layoutTag: post
casefileNumber: 55ccf75fb3901011515aef87
title: "Murder Comes Calling"
author: Logan Legare
date: 2017-04-20
opub: Crime Fiction Stories
opubdate: Dec. 1950
opubissue: Vol. 1, No. 1
category: short-stories
excerpt: "She was an angel—with the heart of Satan. When she died, she left tragedy sown for many others."
image: /assets/img/short-stories/murder-comes-calling.svg
imgh: 300px
imgh: 300px
genre: Noir
tags: Dixon Hawke, Professional Sleuth
wordcount: 5534
trfissue: Vol. 2 No. 8
trfdate: Apr. 9, 2017
kindle: 
epub: 
---

<section id="toc" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h6>Table of Contents</h6>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
1. Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section> <!-- table-of-contents -->

### Chapter 1
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Margot Graham
{: .chaptertitle}

It’s not murder in itself that makes it so bad, it’s the after-effects.
For when the victim dies, it’s usually just starting with the living. At
least that’s the way I’ve come to feel about it, though I sure could be
wrong, judging by the opinions of a few old cranks around Hoskinsville
who say I’ve got too many funny ideas to be editor of the *Hoskinsville
Clarion*. But the old cranks are very much in the minority in our town,
and even if they weren’t, I started the paper eighteen years ago, come
next spring, and I’m going to run it the way I been running it as long
as I got ink and can find a linotype man.

Anyhow, I wasn’t thinking of all the hell and misery just one little
murder can let loose in the world the night I stopped at Margot Graham’s
cottage. I was too busy with my own thoughts, too afraid someone would
see me come here.

Maybe you’re wondering why a waddling, wheezing, pink-fleshed fellow of
fifty-five like me would be sneaking into Margot Graham’s cottage. Well,
sometimes I wondered myself. My wife died five years ago, but I’ve got
two fine kids who’d have been awful crushed to see their old man
slinking along that walk toward the white cottage that gleamed faintly
in the night. I felt like hell myself. I’d been to the cottage once
before.

I’d known even while I was going there the first time that it was pure
insanity. But, brother, you ain’t seen Margot Graham. Anyhow, tonight
she’d commanded me to come there. That’s right—commanded. And I was
going, remembering her phone call, her hard tinkling laugh.

In my pocket I carried a thousand dollars. It was a stiff price for a
man of my meager means to pay for her silence about that other visit,
but over the phone she’d given me to know that I had no choice.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 2
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Only Me And Margot Graham
{: .chaptertitle}

My hand felt cold as I turned the knob, then I closed if the door behind
me, feeling like a fish meshed in a heavy net.

A crack of light showed under a door to my left, and I knew she’d be in
there in the living room, all the blinds drawn, the lighting soft. I
knocked on the door, got no answer.

I tried the knob and the door swung open. She was there in the living
room, waiting for me, all right. But she wouldn’t have waited all
crumpled up on the floor like that.

I got inside the room and closed the door fast. I was in here with
murder, I realized as I bent over her. And yet, even with that chilling
thought going like lightning across my mind, my pulses raced, just
looking at her.

I shook myself, swallowed some of the tightness out of my throat. The
sultry light had left those violet eyes now and the midnight hair was
streaked with crimson. She’d been hit once just over the temple. Once
had been enough. Then I saw the cigar band lying on the floor and bent
to pick it up. I looked at it, dropped it in my pocket. Then I gave the
room the once-over. There was no cigar in any of the ashtrays, no sign
of a murder weapon. Only me and Margot Graham, and the living room she’d
furnished in square, pastel furniture and softly glowing lamps when
she’d first come to Hoskinsville.

Enough of the paralysis left me for me to stagger back out of the room.
In the hallway I waited awhile in the darkness, just shivering and
trying not to think. Then I opened the front door.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 3
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Murder
{: .chaptertitle}

The street was quiet, deserted. I crossed the small porch, ran across
the lawn to keep my footsteps from echoing on the walk. I was running
like hell, but two blocks away my mind began working again and I slowed
to a walk. I took the cigar band I’d found beside Margot Graham from the
side pocket of my coat. A little of her blood was on it and I shuddered.
Then I crammed the band deep into the left pocket of my coat, headed for
the *Clarion* office.

When I closed the door behind me, the smell of paper and ink washed
pleasantly over me. My desk was over to one side, piled high. A stack of
yellowed papers was in the corner, and it seemed you could never find
anything in the cluttered office. In eighteen years you accumulate a lot
of stuff and every time I thought of cleaning the place I couldn’t make
up my mind what to throw away. So it just kept piling up.

I took off my coat, hung it on a nail over my desk. I heard a movement
behind me and whirled around, jerking. It was Willie Lance, my reporter
and associate editor. He’d just come through the short corridor from the
composing room.

He looked at me and said, ‘‘What’s wrong, Cass? You look as if you’d
seen a ghost.” He was a short, thin young fellow with big ears and a
long nose. His parents had died several years ago and Matt O’Toole—who
is Hoskinsville —had sort of taken Willie under his wing. Matt had sent
Willie off to school, but Willie’d come back, gone to work for me.

I made some damfool reply to Willie about having indigestion. I washed
my hands and put water on my head. I don’t really think I expected the
cold water to drive the vision of Margot Graham’s lifeless body from my
mind. I was just stalling, getting myself together.

Then I realized what I might be doing to myself. The longer I stalled,
the worse it was going to look for me if it came out that I’d been in
Margot Graham’s cottage. I wheezed back to the long, gloomy office.
Willie had sat down at his desk, run a sheet of paper in his ramshackle
typewriter, and was lighting a cigarette, preparatory to starting on the
sports page. His chair scraped back sharply as I picked up the phone and
gave the operator Sheriff Raymond Nord’s number.

Willie came over beside me. “What’s up, Cass? Why’re you calling the
Sheriff?”

“Murder,” I said.

“What … !”

At the other end of the line, Nord said, “Hullo.”

“This is Cass Bailey, Raymond. Skedaddle right over here.”

Willie tugged at my arm, his eyes wide over his long nose. “Who?”

I shook his hand off my arm, said into the phone: “Raymond, you get the
hell over here. I’ll guarantee to wake you up!”

“Can’t you tell me … ?”

“I’ll tell you when you get here!” I shouted.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 4
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### A Man With A Public Trust
{: .chaptertitle}

I replaced the phone, and Willie was fairly jumping in his pants. “Who
got killed, Cass? And who did it? Are we going to run an extra? How … ”

“Just keep your shirttail in. We ain’t going any place until Raymond
Nord gets here. Somebody murdered Margot Graham, but we ain’t running a
scandal-sheet, Willie. You’ll get your chance to write up the facts that
Nord finds.”

He shrugged helplessly, crestfallen, and sat down and chain-smoked until
Raymond Nord slammed the office door rattlingly behind him.

Willie jumped about three feet off the floor. “It’s Margot Graham,
sheriff! She’s been murdered!”

Raymond drew up stiffly, looked from Willie to me.

I nodded. “She’s at her cottage. I found her.”

“You!”

I sat down on the edge of my desk. “About a month ago, just a day or two
after she’d got in town, Margot Graham came to the office to take a
subscription to the paper. Willie was out and nobody was back in the
composing room, and my stomach was bothering me. So when I took a little
nip—strictly for my stomach, you know— she sort of invited herself to
one, and …” Face burning, I couldn’t go on.

Raymond Nord leaned his grizzled length toward me, his slate-colored
eyes as wide as they would go in their crinkles of wind-burned skin.
“You’re trying to tell me, Cass, that you … .”

“All right,” I said hoarsely, “I played the part of an old fool. We had
a drink or two and got sort of … well, chummy. It was like being
drugged. She left the office and a day or two passed. I kept seeing her
face every which way I’d look—even overhead in the darkness when I’d lay
in bed and couldn’t sleep. So the third night after she was here … well,
I didn’t have anything to do. I just sort of found myself going toward
her house. I was crazy, I’ll admit. But I’m just a human, Raymond … .”

“And a damn weak one at that,” Raymond said.

“That’s right.” I guess I came close to moaning it. “I knocked on her
door. Then I knew what a fool I was being. I guessed she’d laugh at me.
But before I could turn and run, she opened the door, and she didn’t
laugh at all. Well, she laughed, but not amused, mocking laughter like I
thought she’d laugh. She invited me in, and I couldn’t have turned from
that door if there’d been a million horses dragging me, helping me get
away from there.”

Raymond didn’t snort derisively. He’d seen Margot Graham, like everybody
else in town. He waited quietly.

“We just sat and talked,” I finished lamely. “So help me. She let me
feel welcome, but at the same time she made me aware that I was old
enough to be her pa. Then I left, and that’s all there was to it until
this afternoon. She phoned me, and she wasn’t so nice. She was brittle
and tough. She wanted a thousand dollars or she was going to start a
storm of gossip and scandal that would ruin me. And in a town as small
as Hoskinsville she could have done it.”

“And you a man with a public trust like a newspaper,” Raymond added
sagely, “and with two kids you wanted to protect. Sure … she knew you’d
pay off. What then?”

“I went to her house with the thousand dollars. It’s in my pocket now.
She was dead. And that’s all, so help me.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 5
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Incriminating Evidence
{: .chaptertitle}

Raymond looked at me a long time and the hairs on the back of my neck
and all along my arms were like pins. Then he said quietly, “I’ll call a
deputy and the coroner and we’ll go over to her house.”

I rose heavily, my back sticky with sweat. While Nord phoned a deputy,
Willie Lance stuck a pencil behind each one of his big ears, stuffed his
coat pocket full of yellow paper; we left a small light burning, locked
the office door, and got in Raymond Nord’s car.

Margot Graham lay just as I had left her, arm outflung, crimson nails
biting into the carpet, the soft light somehow glaring and harsh with
the presence of death. I sat down and kept my face turned away. Nord
inspected the room, while Willie shivered and stared in horrified
fascination at death.

Nord left the room and I heard his footsteps all around in the back part
of the cottage. He came back in the living room. “Her bedroom’s been
torn to pieces, drawers dumped on the floor, mattress ripped, even the
carpet pulled off the floor in a pile. Somebody was sure hunting
something.”

“Think they found it?” Willie said.

Nord bobbed his sandy-haired, shaggy head. “A picture has been torn off
the wall. Behind it, Margot Graham had cut into the wall and inset a
steel strongbox. Somebody was evidently hunting the key to the box and
found it. The box was on the floor, open, the key in the lock, empty.”

He planted his feet wide before me. ‘‘You wouldn’t know anything about
that, Cass?”

I shook my head vehemently. “Raymond, I told you the whole mess, so help
me. Can’t you see? I’m not the only one Margot shook down. That was her
racket, simple and profitable. But somebody kicked, killed her, and took
whatever incriminating evidence she had against him from the strong
box.”

There was a sound at the doorway and Raymond’s lank deputy came in.
Raymond gave the deputy instructions to stick around until the coroner
came, added that it was apparently a clean kill with no clues; then as
we went out, Willie almost tripping on my heels, Nord added: “As I was
saying, maybe she came here to shake a few of you old fools down. I’m
inclined to believe it. But the day she came here I started checking on
her, quietly. She had a double motive in coming here, Cass. She had her
little racket—and this is the hometown of her former husband. It was
made to order—a small town where they’d gossip about anything and a
little gossip would ruin anybody and, in case she ran into difficulties
and needed legal help, an ex-husband who is the finest legal brains in
the state.”

I stopped in my tracks. “Not Gerald Winison!”

Raymond nodded, and even in the darkness I could almost see his face
tightening, growing grey, haggard.

“Gerald Winison!” Willie breathed. “Golly, what a story!”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 6
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### A Hypnotic Trance
{: .chaptertitle}

We drove across the middle of Hoskinsville. It was Matt O’Toole’s town,
who called its people his children, some of whom had gone out to win
fame. One of whom had been married to Margot Graham. I wondered if
they’d mention Gerald Winison for governor after tonight.

We drew up before Gerald’s small brick bungalow, got out. We waited, and
I could feel Raymond Nord’s reluctance. Then with a sigh he started for
the door.

Gerald’s young auburn-haired wife answered the door and Raymond twisted
his hat in his hand. “I’d like to see Jerry, Mrs. Winison.”

She smiled, said hello to all of us, and added: “Come in please.”

“No,” Raymond said. “I can talk to Jerry out here.”

He came to the door after a moment, a tall, husky young man in his
shirtsleeves. His dark, crinkly hair was mussed, his eyes sparkling.
“Hello, fellows. Been upstairs in the kid’s room, wrestling with the
little rascal. He … .”

“Come outside, Jerry,” Raymond said heavily, and Jerry’s words cut off
in his throat. He stepped out, closed the door behind him.

“I didn’t want your wife to hear this, Jerry, but Margot Graham’s dead.”

“It was murder,” Willie, standing at my elbow, added.

Jerry finally said, “When?”

“Tonight,” Raymond said. “I want to talk to you, Jerry. Tell your wife
you’ll be coming back later.”

Jerry turned stiffly, opened the door, poked his head in, and told his
wife he would be back after awhile. We went down the walk to the
sheriff’s car. I could sense the questions on Jerry’s lips, but he
didn’t say anything.

The sheriff started the car, began cruising slowly down the dark street.
“Want to tell me, Jerry? I know that you were married to her. I found
that out not long after she got in town.”

“Yes,” Jerry said. “I was married to her. But I divorced her. Peg—my
present wife—knows all about it.” Somehow he spoke too loudly.

“Yeah,” Raymond remarked almost sadly. “The day she came to town, for
instance, I had a hunch Margot Graham was up to no good. So I went to
the train station, checked the point of origin of her ticket. From there
it wasn’t too hard, sending wires, making a couple phone calls. You
better tell me the whole thing, Jerry.”

“Why not?” Jerry said with a faint, bitter laugh. “After this thing
breaks I’ll be washed up anyway. I’ll have to leave Hoskinsville and all
that I’ve built here and take my family some place else.

“I thought I’d got over Margot Graham when I came to Hoskinsville,”
Jerry was saying softly. “I married Peg and pitched in to work. It’s
been five years since then, short years. I knew they were over the
moment I passed Margot on the street, a day or two after she’d come
here. She’d seen my picture in a newspaper, she said, and had decided to
take a look in my new hometown. She asked me to come to her house, and
like a spineless rat … .”

“… In a hypnotic trance,” Raymond said heavily.

“Yes,” Jerry’s voice shook. “In a hypnotic trance I went to her house. I
talked to her a few minutes, left. Somehow I was over it; I didn’t want
to go back again. That night at home with Peg I knew I was cured of
Margot Graham once and for all. Then she called me. And what could I do?
Have the whole town know I’d slipped to my former wife’s house under
cover of night? Try to convince them that it hadn’t meant anything, that
I was cured of her?” His laugh, again, was bitter. “I might as well
tried holding a hurricane in a fragile china teacup! If Margot said the
things she said she would, I knew I was a ruined man.”

“So you went back,” Raymond said.

“Yes,” it was almost a whisper. “I went back. Again, and then again. And
she told me she’d hit a gold mine, that she didn’t know so many yokels
just waiting to be shaken down existed in one town. She was going to
trim … the whole bunch of us. And I was going to be her legal aid if she
needed it—or else. Her first collection, she said, was going to be fifty
thousand dollars.”

“Fifty thousand!” Willie, I, and Sheriff Nord said it almost at once.
Raymond added: “Who the hell in Hoskinsville would have that kind of
money?”

“She didn’t say,” Jerry’s tortured voice went on.

“You didn’t know any of the men, Jerry?”

I squirmed in the back seat. Jerry didn’t answer for quite awhile, then
he whispered, “The only one she ever named was Doctor Daniel Hastings.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 7
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### I Was Awfully Lonely
{: .chaptertitle}

The house of Doctor Daniel Hastings was quiet with the chill calm of
death. All the bright lights in the long quietly-furnished living room
couldn’t dispel the cloud that hung perpetually over the place. Or maybe
it was just because I knew that upstairs lay Dam’s wife. She hadn’t
walked in almost ten years since her automobile accident, and Dan had
operated seven times, each time knowing it would take one more operation
to cure her. And through all the pain, she never lost her smile, the
worship in her eyes, the expression on her wasted face telling the world
that next time Dan would succeed … .

Dan invited us in. His eyes clouded a trifle as he looked from one to
the other of us, saying hello, his strong, surgeon’s hands hanging
stiffly at his sides. “Sit down, gentlemen.”

Raymond shook his head, and we remained standing, a little knot just
inside the doorway. Raymond said, “Can your wife hear us?”

Dan Hastings frowned. “No. She’s fixed for the night, upstairs, with the
nurse. But why … .”

“I just wanted to spare her listening to what we’ve got to say to each
other,” Raymond said. “Margot Graham has been murdered. You’re not going
to deny that you knew her?”

Dan looked from one to the other of us. “No. I’m not going to deny it.”
He turned his bald head so that his face was tilted away from us. His
voice was low, thick: “I knew—I suppose I knew even while I was seeing
her that it would come to this sometime.”

Raymond said, “How many times did you see her Dan?”

“Twice.” He looked up slowly, his eyes burning with self-condemnation.
“I’m not going to ask any of you to understand. Always in the past I’ve
lost myself in my work. In the clinics. I’ve managed to crush the
hopelessness and despair of watching my wife lie week after week,
helpless and hurting, and being unable to help her, crush it just by
working until I dropped.

“I’ll not ask you to understand,” he said again. “But I was tired of
pain and hopelessness and despair. I ... I guess I was awfully lonely.
Then one day Margot Graham walked into my office. I lost my sense.”

“… In a hypnotized trance,” Raymond Nord remarked heavily. “Then she put
the pressure on you for a shakedown, Dan?”

Again his blue eyes went over us. He nodded.

“How much did she want?” Nord asked.

“Fifty thousand dollars?”

Dan laughed grimly. “Where would I get that kind of money? Every dime I
make has a place to go.” He could have added that it was because he got
paid in dimes mostly.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 7
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### All Our Names Were Coming Out
{: .chaptertitle}

“There’s just one thing I want to ask, sheriff,” Dan Hastings said.
“Don’t let my wife know. I’ll take what’s coming to me—but it would kill
her.”

“I’ll not let her know,” Raymond said. But each of us knew it was a
promise he couldn’t keep, possibly. There’d have to be a trial … . And
no matter who finally got the noose around his neck, all our names were
coming out.

Raymond said, “You go along upstairs and tell your wife you’ve got to be
out a while, Dan. We’ll wait outside in my car.”

When Dan came back, he got in the back seat with Willie and me. Willie
had turned on the overhead light in the car, was scribbling furiously on
his yellow paper. He looked up, eyes shining with excitement, face
flushed.

“What a story! What a story! Now I’ll drop the bombshell. The next stop,
gents, is Matt O’Toole’s house!”

We almost went through the top of the car. “You’re crazy, Willie!”

“That’s a lie, Willie!”

“You’re letting your marbles spill, Willie!”

“No,” Willie said. “I ain’t crazy, and I ain’t lying. I … .”

“He’s not,” I said heavily. I ran my hands in the pockets of my coat,
pulled the cigar band that I’d found beside Margot Graham from the right
hand pocket. “I was hoping you’d get a confession maybe before now,
Raymond. I wasn’t intending to hold out on you, but I didn’t want to
show you this until I had to.”

I handed him the cigar band.

“Everybody around town knows that Matt O’Toole smokes that brand. I
found it beside her body. That’s her … her blood on it.”

Raymond folded the band slowly, slipped it in his vest pocket. “She sure
must have been some woman. Even after she’s dead, she’s tearing the
foundations right out from under Hoskinsville—you, Cass, our honest,
fighting newspaper man, Jerry, the lad with the playgrounds, teenage
clubs, the fighter for civic betterment, Dan the crusading doctor, and
now Matt O’Toole, who built the damn town in the first place!”

Raymond turned to Willie. “How come you to think of Matt?”

“I heard him couple days ago when I went up to his place for a story. He
was talking over the phone to her. ’Sides, Matt O’Toole is the logical
guy to be taken for as much as fifty thousand. He’s rich.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 8
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Matt O’Toole
{: .chaptertitle}

You’d never have known it by looking at him. Matt ushered us into his
sweeping living room with its rustic furniture with a hearty hello. He
was a strapping, freckled, red-headed Irishman, his hair flying like a
wild flag. Some doctor had told Matt thirty years ago that he might live
six more months by coming to the hills. Matt had come; he was still
alive. He’d transformed the hill wilderness into a city bustling about
the woolen homespun textile industry. O’Toole mountain homespuns were
known the world over, the choice fabric of elite tailors in New York.

And in building his industry, which he’d started from hand looms in
rough mountain cabins, and his city, Matt O’Toole had never lost sight
of the human element. He believed in parks and churches and good
schools. He believed in good working conditions and clean government.
Jerry had built playgrounds, but Matt’s money had backed him. Dan had
fought for the clinics, but Matt was really the general in the campaign.

Now he shook our hands warmly and invited us to drink his whiskey, but
Raymond said awkwardly: “Some other time, Matt. We got important things
on our minds. Margot Graham has been murdered.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 9
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Cigar Band
{: .chaptertitle}

Matt sat down, squinting his blue eyes, running his hand through his
shock of wild red hair. “You think I had something to do with it?”

Nord took a long, deep breath. I wished I was out of here, wished I’d
never heard of Margot Graham. I knew Jerry and Dan felt the same way.
Willie was all ears, literally and figuratively. Raymond Nord said
finally: “I know you knew her, Matt. I know she was trying to shake you
down for fifty thousand dollars.”

Matt looked from one to the other of us. His eyes were grave, even
alarmed, but he managed a chuckle.

“A pack of old fools!” he said, shaking his head. “She wasn’t trying to
shake me down. She did it! I guess I just love Irish whiskey too much.
Hell, I even promised her in writing that I’d marry her!”

“And she got the fifty thousand?” Raymond asked.

“Got it two days ago,” Matt said.

“But you didn’t kill her?”

“No,” Matt said, “I didn’t kill her. I just looked things flat in the
face, realized I’d been an old fool in a … .”

“… Hypnotic trance,” Raymond supplied dourly.

“That’s right,” Matt said. “She did sort of hypnotize me. You never knew
her well, Raymond? She was an angel, with a core right out of Satan’s
heart. She was a lady, and a black-hearted schemer. She was a princess,
and a ruthless guttersnipe.”

Raymond looked at us and said, “None of you did anything wrong,
actually. But, you know, one of you is a murderer.”

We looked at each other then, and the room grew cold. I sat down.
Raymond walked over to the phone, called the coroner. He talked a few
moments, then came back to face us. “She was killed between six and nine
tonight. You, Jerry, where were you?”

“Home,” Jerry said. “I’d had a hard day at the office.”

“Can you prove it?”

“My wife was there, and the maid.”

Raymond turned to Dan. “And you?”

“I was at the hospital,” Dan said. “I called my house at five-thirty,
then went directly up to my surgery. I left there at about eight, went
down to consult with Dr. Lamb until after nine. I’d got home just before
you came. Three or four doctors and half a dozen nurses can prove I
never left the hospital between six and nine.”

“And you, Matt?”

“At the plant,” Matt said decisively, “having a little conference with a
superintendent and a couple of foremen.”

Raymond turned to me and my mouth got dry and I felt empty right down to
my toes. Between six and nine I’d been alone. Until I’d found her body
right about nine o’clock.

I hunched down in my chair listening to the silence in the room, feeling
their eyes on me. I pushed my hands down hard in my coat pockets; then I
came out of the chair with a jump that startled them all.

“Where was Willie?” I demanded.

Willie jerked so hard the pencils fell from behind his ears. “What do
you mean, Cass Bailey?” he shouted.

I grabbed him by the collar, shook him. “You killed her, you little rat.
Matt O’Toole put you in college and you were too rotten to stay there.
Tonight you slipped into her house and killed her! We’ve been thinking
of the shakedown angle as a motive—but what about the fifty thousand
Matt gave her? She knew you, maybe recognized in you a rat she could
use! And you slunk around until you’d learned of the fifty thousand. You
tore her bedroom to pieces hunting for it, found it in the strongbox
hidden in the wall behind the picture! She came in, surprised you, and
you caught her in the living room and killed her.

“If Matt wasn’t in her house tonight, the band from his cigar must have
been planted. You took the band with you to plant, Willie. You intended
to drop it in the bedroom where she’d find it. She’d recognize it as
Matt’s, and since she and Matt were supposed to be the only ones who
knew he had actually given her fifty thousand dollars, you were banking
on her jumping to the conclusion that he’d been there, got his money
back. But it didn’t work out that way. She came home earlier than you’d
thought she would. And you killed her. Then you decided still to use the
band, but for a different plant, a murder plant.” He jerked out of my
grip, moved back. “You’re crazy, Cass Bailey. Any of you could have
planted the cigar band!”

“Yes, Willie,” I said, “but you did. You knew she was mixed with
important men. You wanted to get enough of the important men involved to
make the investigation a hush-hush affair, so in a few days you could
skip out with the money. To keep the affair as squelched as possible you
wanted all of us in as bad a light as possible; that’s why you left the
cigar band on me, in my pocket! Isn’t that the truth Willie?”

“You’re crazy!” Willie shouted again. “I didn’t touch the band!”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 10
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### May She Rest In Peace
{: .chaptertitle}

“I can prove you did, Willie. You were the only person who had access to
my coat—while it was hanging over my desk when I went back to the
washroom just after I’d come in the office. You went through my pockets,
found the band. But you made the mistake of putting the band back in the
wrong pocket. The band was in the left pocket of my coat when I entered
the office, but it was in the right pocket of my coat when I reached for
it to hand it to Sheriff Nord!

“If you’re in the clear, Willie, why did you go in my pockets in the
first place? You were hoping the sheriff would find the band on me or
that I’d have to hand it over. Every little item to make it look blacker
played in your favor … but, Willie, you know some place in her house you
must have left fingerprints. Even after she’s gone, she and her house
will finger you and … .”

With a sharp cry Willie lunged back, his hand diving under his coat
toward a gun. He brought the gun up, fired, hit the wall. He steadied
himself in a split instant, while we were trying to get in motion. He’d
not miss this time.

But another gun spoke, Raymond Nord’s, and a tiny black hole jumped into
being in the bridge of Willie’s long nose. The hole disappeared in a
flood of crimson, and somewhere in his short fall to the floor Willie
Lance died.

We stood looking at his crumpled heap, wiping our faces and shivering a
little. Nobody spoke for a few moments; then Raymond Nord said: “Funny
how a man can think a million thoughts between two ticks of a watch,
while Willie was getting set to pull the trigger again.”

He looked from one to the other of us dourly. “Thoughts about a nice
town filled with swell people and the old fools who have made it.
Thoughts about kids in playgrounds, people in white, airy clinic and
modern hospital, about a newspaper that’s never let a city official get
out of line, about the red-headed ruffian behind it all.”

He sighed heavily. “I even thought about Jerry’s wife and kid, Cass’ two
offspring, Dan’s wife and her faith in him that he’ll justify one of
these days. So …” he shrugged his lean shoulders. “If Willie hadn’t made
the break he’d have got a trial. Trials bring to light a lot of things,
innocent things, but things that would have enabled Margot Graham to
drag everything I was thinking about right down into the grave with her.
But since Willie did make the break …

Matt said, “It was your life or his.”

Matt turned then and began pouring whiskey. We needed it. Jerry looked
at his jigger. “To Margot Graham,” he said.

Dan added: “May she rest in peace.”

“She won’t,” I said.

“No,” Matt O’Toole said, “she wasn’t that kind.”

“And,” Raymond Nord muttered, “neither was Willie.”

<p id="theend">~ The End ~
<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>