---
layout: short-stories
layoutTag: post
casefileNumber: 55ccf75fb3901011515aef21
title: "The Strange Story of Martin Colby"
author: Ward Sterling
date: 2017-01-24
releasedate: 2017-03-07
opub: Black Mask
opubdate: Aug. 1920
opubissue: Vol. 1, No. 5
category: short-stories
excerpt: "This is Martin Colby’s story, not mine. Three of us heard him tell it &mdash; Willoughby, the eminent English clergyman, who is now filling a number of lecture engagements in this country, Mosby, the attorney, and myself—and we are all firmly convinced that he spoke the truth. I write it just as he gave it to us."
image: /assets/img/short-stories/strange-story-of-martin-colby.svg
imgh: 300px
genre: Crook
tag: short-story
wordcount: 2391
trfissue: Vol. 1 No. 4
trfdate: Jan. 22, 2017
kindle: 
epub: 
---

<section id="toc" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h6>Table of Contents</h6>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
1. Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section> <!-- table-of-contents -->

### Chapter 1
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Talk of Haunted Houses, Life After Death & the Supernatural
{: .chaptertitle}

This is Martin Colby’s story, not mine. Three of us heard him tell
it &mdash; Willoughby, the eminent English clergyman, who is now filling a
number of lecture engagements in this country, Mosby, the attorney, and
myself—and we are all firmly convinced that he spoke the truth. I write
it just as he gave it to us.

We were spending a few days in early spring at Mosby’s country place.

Possibly the weather had something to do with the way the story
impressed us. It was a dark, stormy night, with drizzling grists of rain
and a shrieking, howling wind that shook the window panes and whistled
and moaned through the leafless trees—one of those nights that make the
shivers run up and down your backbone in pleasurable anticipation of the
scare that never comes—a night created especially for tales of yawning
graves and spiritual manifestations.

Seated in front of the huge, open fireplace in Mosby’s big living room—a
room so large that there were shadows in every corner—it was only
natural that the talk should drift onto haunted houses, life after death
and the supernatural in all its varying phases.

Mosby, who is something of an amateur psychologist, had been reading Sir
Oliver Lodge, Sir Arthur Doyle and other writers on spiritual lines and
was filled with enthusiasm and a working idea of Ouija boards, spirit
rappings and table tipping. On the other hand, Willoughby, like most
clergyman, was an open scoffer. The argument continued for an hour or
two without result.

Finally Colby, who had been listening and saying nothing, was appealed
to.

“There is no question in my mind,” he answered, weighing his words
carefully, as he always does when he speaks seriously, “that our
departed friends watch over us and, given half a chance, will offer us a
helping hand.”

“Bosh!” shouted the clergyman. “Give us proofs, man! Don’t deal in
generalities. Offer us something tangible!”

Colby hesitated before answering. “What I am about to tell you,” he
said, finally, “is a true story. I have never repeated it to anyone
before, because I do not care to have people doubt my word—and the
average man is prone to scoff at what he cannot understand. To me, there
is only one explanation—that of spirit intervention. Perhaps you, as a
clergyman, with a supposedly better knowledge of the hereafter than is
given us ordinary mortals, can offer a solution to the puzzle.”

And this is the story that Martin Colby told:

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 2
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Martin Colby’s Story
{: .chaptertitle}

“I was suffering from brain fag. The novel on which I was at work—my
latest, by the way—threatened to be a dismal failure, as a result. For
weeks I had not touched the typewriter, lacking ideas to put on paper.
My publishers were clamoring for the manuscript. The book had been
announced through the press and the advance royalties were already
banked to my credit. I owed it to them as well as myself, to bring my
work to a close.

“But I was dissatisfied. The plot, itself, was the best thing that I had
ever done. But the story lacked that indescribable something that marks
the really finished product from the machine-made drivel. It sounded
forced and strained. In other words, it had no punch. And my heroine!
Heavens, what a woman! She had as much life as a wilted rag doll.

“Anyone who is familiar with my work knows that I write of the wilds,
the prairies, the forests, the icy barrens. But this story was to be a
departure. It was to be a tale of human emotions—a drama seething with
passion and depicting the under side of life among the dwellers of the
great city. But my heroine was to be a woman of the Northland,
transplanted from her native snows and ice, hedged in on all sides by
wickedness, yet keeping herself clean and pure in spite of her
surroundings.

“I wanted to make her a girl of unusual strength of character, one who
dominated every page of the book and held the reader’s undivided love,
rather than the insipid, white-livered anaemic who wandered through the
story like an automaton. But, in spite of everything, I was unable to
concentrate on her—to inject any life into her. Every writer has such
experiences at times. I have had them before and I expect to have them
again.

“And then, one afternoon, like a bolt of lightning out of a clear sky,
came a working streak. I tackled the story with renewed vim and
enthusiasm. For hours I wrote and rewrote, hacked and edited. From
somewhere in the hidden recesses of my brain evolved a new heroine—Edith
Morley—a sweet-faced, golden haired, full-breasted, red-blooded woman—a
lovable girl and a true daughter of the Vikings I love so well.

“Far into the night I worked. Under my flying thoughts, Edith Morley
grew, developing with every change, blossoming forth into radiant
womanhood. I tell you, I was obsessed with her. And, gentlemen, without
egotism, I say frankly that she became so real to me that she walks
through the pages of my book a living, pulsating character instead of a
creature of my imagination. But as for that, you can judge for
yourselves when the story comes out next month.

“I forgot dinner, everything, in the enthusiasm of my work. I have no
idea how long I worked. It was far into the night and, sometime during
the evening, I had automatically switched on the lights. But, finally,
flesh and blood could stand it no longer. I fell across the table, my
head pillowed in my arms. Whether I fainted or whether it was the sleep
following exhaustion, I do not pretend to say.

“Was I really asleep? I do not know. I’ll swear that I could hear the
clock ticking in the adjoining room and the thousand-and-one other odd,
mysterious, little sounds that come in the middle of the night. Yet I
must have been asleep. There is no other explanation.”

“Suddenly, I heard a scream—a piercing, terror-stricken shriek — coming
out of the darkness of the night.

“Edith Morley stood before me!

“Have you ever seen a poor, hunted creature at bay? She was panting
desperately. Her arms were outstretched towards me, her fingers working
convulsively. Her dress was torn so that a glimpse of the round, white
shoulder showed. In her eyes was a look of despair, of helpless appeal.
Her long, golden hair hung about her waist in tangled disarray. I knew
that she was asking me for help. I attempted to arouse myself from the
horrible, paralyzing constriction that held me to my chair. But I was
helpless, bound down by invisible bands.

“And then, into the focus leaped a man—a human beast—a thick-lipped,
coarse-featured creature with snapping black eyes that glowered and
blazed between red, swollen lids, and a bluish-dark growth of whisker
that only served to emphasize the brutal viciousness of his undershot
lower jaw. I tell you, he was a creature straight from the Inferno.

“At sight of the girl, the bestial lips parted, showing a glimpse of
decaying, tobacco-stained teeth. He raised one black, hairy hand and
beckoned. The girl drew back a trifle further, the look of desperation
kindled anew in her eyes, one white, slender hand pressed against her
palpitating breast.

“As Heaven is my witness, I saw that tragedy unfold itself in front of
my eyes with all the vividness of a motion picture thrown upon the
screen. I struggled with every bit of strength at my command to tear
myself loose from the invisible hands that glued me to my chair. But in
vain. I watched the beast slowly drawing himself forward like a snake
about to strike. I could not move. Nearer and nearer he came, passing so
close to me that I could smell his whiskey-and-tobacco-laden breath,
moving with cat-like stealth. And, as he approached her, she drew
farther and farther away until she found her back against the wall. Her
wild, blue eyes looked into mine, tense with fear, desperate—and I was
helpless.

“God! The sweat poured from every pore in my body. Then, suddenly, he
launched himself at her. What a fight she put up to keep him from her,
striking, clawing, biting. She was like a wounded tigress at bay. Her
waist was torn into shreds. On the white flesh of her arms, the bruises
stood out with startling vividness.

“With an almost superhuman effort, she twisted herself from his grasp
and leaped away. Once more he drove her into a corner. Again that look
of piteous appeal to me. Then, before he could seize her again, her
convulsive fingers reached into the bosom of her dress and returned with
a tiny bottle on which the death’s head showed a brilliant scarlet under
the electric lamp.

“Before she could convey it to her mouth, the beast was upon her, his
talons tightened about her wrist. She battled now with the energy of
despair. Backward he bent her arm until I listened for the snap that
tells of the agony of broken bones. But again, through some strange
twist of fate, she tore herself from his grasp. Her freedom was but for
an instant. Yet it was long enough for her to carry the tiny vial to her
lips.

“Then she crumpled up in a little heap on the floor. And, gentlemen, I
will swear that there was a smile of happiness on her face.

“I awoke with a start. For a second I gazed about me, wide-eyed, trying
to collect myself even in the midst of my own apartments. Then, with
every nerve tingling in response to some psychic force, I rushed out of
the building into the blackness of the night.

“Of course, up to this point, you will simply say that I had been
dreaming—that so strong an impression had the character of my brain made
upon me that it was a case of self-hypnosis. Wait until you have heard
my story to the end. It will prove to you, if your minds are open, that
there is some unknown, subtle force at work in our behalf, of which we
know nothing. To me, the only explanation is that our loved ones who
have gone before us are constantly seeking to serve us if we will but
give them the opportunity.

“That Edith Morley was a real woman of flesh and blood, I am willing to
testify. I never saw her until I met her in my dream, vision, or
whatever you care to call it, yet I had described her accurately, even
to her little traits of character, hours before when my sudden working
streak had brought her into my story. It may have been telepathy, but to
me it was the work of the unseen forces I have just mentioned. I will
show you that she had been thinking of me at the very minute I was
writing of her—or, at least, there is no doubt of it in my mind. And,
too, my mind was open to suggestion. But I digress.

“Drawn by unseen hands, I walked on and on through the blackness of the
night until I reached an unfamiliar part of the city.

“I swear that I had never been in that vicinity before, yet I knew
exactly where to turn and what streets to take. I am not a sleep walker;
I have a perfect recollection of making that long trip across the town,
and on foot, mind you, yet I am certain that I was not fully awake. I
was more in the condition of a man in a daze.

“My feet carried me to the door of a battered old brick tenement house.
I climbed up four flights of stairs, rickety and dirty, lighted by smoky
kerosene lamps. I had no idea where I was going, yet unseen hands were
guiding me, pulling me along whenever I seemed to hesitate.

“Before one of the doors on the fourth floor, I stopped. I rapped.
Receiving no answer, I opened the door and entered.

“She—Edith Morley—the girl of my dream—lay in a crumpled heap on the
floor! Every detail, even to the torn dress and the dark bruises on her
white flesh, was just as it had appeared in my dream. Scattered about,
near where she had fallen, were the pieces of glass from the broken
bottle. On one of them the death’s head grinned up at me as if chuckling
at the grimness of it all. The pungent odor of bitter almonds filled the
air.

“In the corner stood a battered old dresser. Tucked in the cracked
mirror was my picture, clipped from a newspaper review of one of my
books. Below it was spread a letter, face upwards. It read :

*“ ‘I have done everything possible to fight off the inevitable. Death
is all that remains. I am without money and without friends. If Twiggs
comes again tonight, I will kill myself. Please notify Mr. Martin Colby,
the novelist. He knows the North—my North! He does not know me, but I
would like him to know that I died like a true daughter of God’s
country—the land we both love so well.’ ”*

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 3
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Edith Morley
{: .chaptertitle}

Colby arose and stretched his long arms above his head.

“If you care for further proof, I have the letter that she left behind.”
For a second there was silence. Then Willoughby broke the strain. “Was
she—”

Colby nodded and said:

“We never learned her name. I paid the expenses of her funeral and for
the headstone over her grave. On it I had carved the only name I knew
her by, ‘Edith Morley.’ And beneath it I had these words engraved:

*“‘She left the world as clean as she, came into it' ”*

<p id="theend">~ The End ~
<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>