---
layout: short-stories
layoutTag: post
casefileNumber: 55ccf75fb3901011515aef4e
title: "The Trap"
author: R. T. M. Scott
date: 2017-02-10
releasedate: 2017-03-24
opub: Black Mask
opubdate: Apr. 1922
opubissue: Vol. 5, No. 1
category: short-stories
excerpt: "On the sunbaked Madras Railway, whose trap will be sprung first?"
image: /assets/img/short-stories/trap.svg
caption: "Her back was turned and she appeared to be sobbing her heart out."
imgh: 300px
genre: Professional Sleuth
tag: short-story
wordcount: 5522
trfissue: Vol. 1 No. 6
trfdate: Feb. 5, 2017
kindle:
epub:
---

<section id="toc" class="toc">
  <header>
    <h6>Table of Contents</h6>
  </header>
<div id="drawer" markdown="1">
1. Auto generated table of contents
{:toc}
</div>
</section> <!-- table-of-contents -->

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 1
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Madras Railway
{: .chaptertitle}

The dusty, sunbaked train of the Madras Railway rumbled across the long
bridge over the Kistna River and came to a halt at Bezwada. Smith of the
Criminal Intelligence Department of India threw open the door of his
first-class compartment and strolled indolently through the throng of
shouting natives toward the station restaurant. Shrill-voiced
pawnee-wallahs lugged their skins of water from window to window of the
third-class carriages and sweetmeat venders cried the virtues of their
confections as they held their trays aloft.

It was an old story to Smith and one might have thought that he paid no
attention whatever to his surroundings. He gave no sign of interest but
in reality he was keenly interested. Three times during the last ten
days had his life been attempted. It was well for him to be on the
alert.

After a light tiffin Smith sauntered up and down the platform for a few
minutes before the train was due to resume its long journey to Calcutta.
He was the only white man among the crowds of natives. Indeed there were
only two first-class compartments on the entire train. One of
these—directly in rear of Smith’s compartment—was reserved for ladies.
An unusually old ayah scuttled backwards and forwards between this
compartment and the restaurant. She was busy with refreshments for her
mistress, who preferred not to leave the train and who kept her blinds
drawn against the curious gaze of the natives.

Sharp toots of warning from the engine caused Smith to turn abruptly and
enter his compartment. As he closed the door behind him he heard it
opened again and he turned like a flash to ascertain the cause.
Unexpected occurrences had come to have ominous significance for him of
late.

What Smith saw upon turning, however, did not seem very dangerous. He
was a dapper, little man who entered, smooth shaven and far from strong
in physical appearance. He threw his topee into the rack for small
parcels and sat down upon the seat opposite to the one upon which
Smith’s kit was lying. No word was spoken. White men who live in India
do not talk much without a formal introduction.

Smith paid as little outward attention to his new traveling companion as
he had paid to the throngs of natives upon the station platform. As the
train gathered way he stretched himself full length upon his seat and
lighted a cigarette. Notwithstanding his apparent indifference, however,
Smith had noted several things which the ordinary observer might have
failed to perceive. Instinctively he felt that the little man had
attempted to display an easy manner that he did not feel when he threw
the topee into the rack.

Smith felt that the act was an attempt at nonchalance and was not
genuine. He noted, too, that the man had no native servant which is
unusual for the first-class traveler of the East. In addition to this
the eyes of the little man had a story to tell. They were not straight
eyes. They were shifty and it was Smith’s profession to read eyes.

He closed his own as he tossed his cigarette out of the window, but
opened them again at once. The man on the opposite seat was looking at
Smith and he was looking at Smith’s eyes.

Smith stretched wearily and settled a pillow more comfortably as if
preparing for a snooze. The shifty eyes had darted away and the little
man busied himself in examining the rush screen in the center window
upon his side which is constructed so that water may drip downward and
cool the air by evaporation.

Smith observed the sudden interest in something other than himself and
read the action once more as not being genuine. Again he closed his eyes
and it was impossible to see that they fluttered open just far enough
for observation. It was hot and sultry and sleep comes easily and
unexpectedly under these conditions. Smith knew this and he knew that
his life might depend upon his remaining awake. He might be wrong but
his life of adventure had taught him the value of deduction combined
with intuition. Previously the man he was hunting had sent natives to
kill him. Now he had sent another white man. If Smith could last out
long enough the man himself would come and then the battle would be
decided once and for all—one way or the other.

The man on the seat opposite soon lost interest in the automatic cooler.
He drew a small book from his pocket and settled back as if to read. As
the train rattled on along the Madras coast the reader’s eyes glanced
over the top of his book at the tall man stretched silently upon the
seat. Gradually Smith’s breathing became deeper and more uniform. Once
the little man dropped his book but the breathing did not alter. A
minute or two afterwards he rose from his seat and took a pace toward
Smith, only to sit down again very suddenly as the door of the tiny
servants’ compartment opened.

Langa Doonh’s spotless white livery and towering turban were as
immaculate on board train as they were when standing behind his master’s
chair at a dinner party. It was one of Langa Doonh’s secrets—and he had
many since he had entered the service of Smith sahib. Other servants
might be dirty when they traveled and none too clean at any time, but
Langa Doonh was the servant of Smith sahib who was the greatest sahib in
all India—to Langa Doonh.

To all appearances it made no difference whether the little man had sat
down leisurely or hurriedly. He might have been a thousand miles away
for all the attention he was accorded by the servant who had so suddenly
entered the compartment. Silently, with bare feet, he moved about. With
a small whisk he cleaned every inch of floor upon his master’s side of
the compartment and not an inch did he touch upon the stranger’s side.
With mathematical precision he adjusted Smith’s cigarettes, matches and
watch which lay upon the small table at his head. This finished he
withdrew to his own compartment and closed the door without the
slightest sound.

Five minutes followed, during which Smith’s even breathing continued and
the stranger read but failed to turn a page of his book. At the end of
that time the little man dropped one hand into his side pocket. No
longer was he looking at the book, although it was still held in his
left hand. His eyes narrowed as they gazed hard at the prostrate man
whose steady breathing showed no sign of altering. Little by little the
right hand came out of the pocket and with it emerged a black automatic.
It was half out when Smith spoke.

“Put it on the seat beside you and be careful not to point the muzzle
this way.”

Smith’s eyes were open and over his leg was pointing the barrel of a gun
quite as black and formidable as the stranger’s. Quickly the little man
obeyed and, dropping his book, sat motionless. There was nothing else to
do.

“Sahib call?”

The door of the servants’ compartment stood open and Langa Doonh
regarded the scene as if automatic pistols were matters of ordinary
occurrence in his life.

“Cigarette aur dyasali lao,” drawled Smith.

Carefully the boy reached for the cigarettes and matches. Extracting a
single cigarette he placed it in the disengaged hand of his master and,
lighting a match, applied it to the cigarette when Smith was ready. Not
once did he come between the muzzle of his master’s gun and the man
opposite. For an instant he hesitated and then returned to his own
compartment, closing the door once more.

“Why shouldn’t I clean my pistol?” asked the stranger, who had had time
to think a little.

“Because I got mine out first,” snapped Smith. “Pass yours over with the
muzzle toward yourself.”

The man shrugged his shoulders and obeyed.

“Stand up, turn your back and grip the rack above your head with both
hands,” ordered Smith.

Smith rose and searched the man but found nothing beyond a railroad
ticket to Calcutta and a few rupee notes of low denomination. He reached
up and took one of the man's hands off the rack in order to examine a
curious turquoise ring. He slipped the ring off the finger but returned
it upon finding no initials upon the inside. Shoving the man down into
his seat in no gentle manner Smith resumed his reclining position as if
the affair had lost interest for him.

“What’s your name?” he queried indifferently.

There was no answer from the stranger, who remained inert and crumpled
in the corner of his seat where he had been jammed.

“It doesn’t matter,” continued Smith. “Go to your master and tell him
that the wholesale stealing of jewels in India for sale to tourists in
Ceylon must stop. He knows that I caught his best agent in Ceylon and
that his business is already crippled. Tell him that it will only be a
matter of time before I catch him and that I may not bother to take him
alive since he has sent so many people to put me out of the way.”

“You mean that I am free to go?” asked the little man in surprise.

“Uh-huh,” said Smith.

“When?”

“Now, if you like,” was the careless reply.

Suddenly the eyes of the little man gleamed. Rising, he darted to the
door, opened it and stepped out.

The train was crawling up an incline and there was a sandy embankment
beside the roadbed. Smith did not even trouble himself to look out.

“Boy!” he called.

“Sahib?” replied the native servant, who had opened his door instantly.

“Darwaza bundo!”

Unconcernedly the native closed the door which the dapper little man had
left open when he stepped out. What mattered it to Langa Doonh if his
master had seen fit to throw another sahib out of the compartment? It
was quite proper for his master to do such a thing but it would be
highly improper for him to bother closing the door afterwards so long as
he, Langa Doonh, was present.

Alone once more Smith again lay back upon his pillow and reflected upon
the situation. Was his course of action best suited to bring out the man
he wanted? Would the head of the organization of thieves attempt a
personal blow when so many of his agents continued to fail? Did he lack
personal courage or was he, perhaps, known to Smith and feared
recognition in the event of a failure to kill? These and similar
thoughts occupied the mind of the man upon the carriage seat until he
was suddenly interrupted in a most unexpected manner.

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 2
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Sobbing Woman
{: .chaptertitle}

Leaping to his feet Smith pressed an ear against the thin partition
which separated his compartment from the one in the rear. Above the
noise of the train he had distinctly heard a feminine shriek. Again,
with his ear against the wood, he heard the high-pitched agonized call
of a woman. The screams changed quickly to a low groaning which could
scarcely be distinguished and then only the rattle of the train
remained.

For an instant Smith reached for the chain of the emergency alarm but,
changing his mind, opened the door and leaned out. It was before the
time that the Government did away with the running-boards on account of
the number of murders by assassins who crept along the outside of trains
and struck through the open windows at those who slept.

Smith glanced at the foot-board with a question in his eyes. It was
possible—just possible—that the little man had not jumped off the train,
after all. With care he could have bent low and crept back along the
train. Would he have dared to attack a woman so close to an agent of the
Criminal Intelligence Department? Smith thought not. Was it a trap? It
seemed impossible.

No matter what might be the explanation, a woman in distress had
called—and Smith swung himself out upon the running-board. As he clung
to the hand-grips on the outside of the swaying train and worked his way
backward the head of Langa Doonh protruded from one of the windows.

“Sahib?” the boy whispered enquiringly.

Smith placed a finger upon his lips and motioned his servant back just
as he passed the last of his own compartment windows.

A hurt look spread over the face of the native boy as he withdrew from
the window. Sometimes, when his master went upon particularly hazardous
expeditions, Langa Doonh was left behind. The boy grieved over these
occurrences but, above all else, he had to obey. To disobey Smith sahib
was so utterly impossible as to be beyond his imagination.

There being nothing else to do, Langa Doonh decided to clean the
compartment once more. He was bending over to brush up the dust and
cinders that had accumulated when something hard flew through the window
upon the opposite side of the train to that upon which Smith had made
his exit. Langa Doonh fell senseless to the floor, while a heavy rock
lay by his head. Instantly the almost naked body of a native wriggled
through the window from whence the stone had come.

The intruding native knelt quickly and proceeded to bind the hands and
feet of his victim with a stout cord that he took from around his waist.
With a strip torn from his loin-cloth he forced a gag into Langa Doonh’s
mouth and dragged him most unceremoniously back into his tiny
compartment, the door of which he bolted before climbing out through the
same window through which he had entered.

As Smith reached the first window of the compartment in rear of the one
he had left he held with one hand to the iron support while, with the
other, he nursed his gun just inside the breast of his pongee coat. Very
carefully he raised his head and looked inside.

There was but one occupant to be seen. Upon the opposite seat lay a
young woman. Her back was turned and she appeared to be sobbing her
heart out into a cushion. Her body shook almost as if in convulsions.

Smith spoke, but the distracted woman paid no attention or failed to
hear the rather low voice above the rattle of the train. His eyes
searching every corner of the compartment and keenly inspecting the
figure of the crying woman, Smith moved on from window to window until
he reached the door, which he opened, and stepped inside. For a minute
or two he stood motionless while he examined the contents of the
compartment, noting white-covered umbrella, gloves, green veiling and
some toilet articles upon the small table. Everything appeared to be
genuine—and yet Smith was not satisfied.

Turning to the door of the servants’ compartment he jerked it quickly
open and glanced inside. Lying upon the floor, with her head resting
upon her bundle, was the old ayah whom Smith had seen upon the station
platform. Her closed eyes and heavy breathing gave every indication of
sleep, which is so commonly indulged in, whenever possible, by the
native during the heat of the day.

Smith closed the door very quietly. Since entering the compartment
Smith’s eyes had not left the figure of the sobbing woman for more than
a couple of seconds. He felt that something was wrong and, intuitively,
he sensed the presence of danger but he could not tell where it lay.

Not quite decided as to his course of action, Smith opened the door
opposite to that which he had entered and threw one swift look back
toward the compartment he had left. Even then, although he had seen that
which caused him deep concern, his eyes flashed back to the figure of
the girl, whose sobbing had nearly ceased. He had just seen a strange
native crawling from the window of his own compartment. The incident
needed quick investigation but first he must question the girl.

Smith took one step toward the now silent girl and his lanky,
loose-framed body tensed as he crouched into the springing attitude of
one of the jungle beasts of prey. Such a little thing he had seen—just
an exposed finger upon which was a peculiar turquoise ring. The sudden
crouch undoubtedly saved his life. There was the sharp crack of a small
caliber pistol as the girl raised her head and fired over her reclining
body.

<span id="bookmark19" class="anchor"></span>

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 3
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### The Pearl Buyer of Calcutta
{: .chaptertitle}

Smith did not return the fire although his pistol was drawn. Instead he
hurled his body forward as the beast of prey that he resembled might
have done. One long arm shot out and the pistol was seized with lean
fingers and wrenched away before the girl could press the trigger a
second time. The girl, nonplussed by the suddenness of her defeat, sat
up, her face exposed. A broad grin spread over Smith’s face. All his
indolence of manner returned. Carelessly he stretched out a hand and
lifted the mass of curls from her head. Before him sat the dapper little
man who had pretended to jump from the train.

“Got any more guns?” asked Smith.

The little man sullenly shook his head but Smith made certain by a
thorough patting from head to foot.

“Put your hair on again.” continued Smith, tossing back the curly wig.
“and climb back into my compartment. You are cleverer than I thought and
I think I’ll take you to Calcutta. You are almost clever enough to be
the man I am after; but no,”—Smith paused in thought—“he would have
removed the turquoise ring.”

The man in woman’s attire looked down at the ring and sullenly turned
the blue stone in.

“So that was what warned you,” he commented. “Shall I get out of these
woman’s things?”

“No,” returned Smith. "Get out on the running-board and back to my
compartment just as you are. If you try to jump off I’ll shoot you
before you touch the ground.”

Few people hang their heads out of the windows of Indian trains on the
long, dusty stretches between stations. Nobody saw a man and a woman
clinging to the foot-board of the swaying train. Had they done so they
would have noticed that the woman went first and that the man did not
bother to offer the slightest assistance to his companion. Indeed, when
the woman came opposite to the first window of the adjoining compartment
she caught her skirt on a loose screw of an iron hand-grip and seemed to
be in considerable difficulty. Even then the man, only a few feet behind
her, offered no help. After considerable delay, however, he became
impatient and spoke in a low voice.

“Move on,” he said, “or I’ll shoot your dress free.”

The delay had considerably exasperated Smith, who was anxious to
ascertain what the strange native had been doing in his compartment. As
he followed his captive through the door he dropped the gun, which he
had been carrying, into his side pocket and turned toward the servants’
compartment.

“Your hands up, old chap, if you don’t mind.”

Smith wheeled, but it was too late. Stretched full length upon the long
seat, so close to the windows as to have been invisible to Smith as he
climbed along the running-board, was the ayah—the infirm old native
woman who had apparently been sleeping so soundly but a few minutes
before. In her hand was a pistol and Smith’s hands slowly went above his
head. It was the ayah and yet it was not. The sluggish mentality of an
old native woman was gone and with it the timorous attitude of the
humble servant. Only his long training in self-control allowed Smith to
depict the outward indifference that he was far from feeling.

“Just turn your back, old dear,” continued the man’s voice of this
strange ayah, “while a woman takes off a few of her clothes.”

It was undoubtedly a man who spoke and with the words he rose and began
unwinding a long, dirty sari from about his head and waist. With the
sari came the gray matted wig, revealing nut-brown, close-cropped hair.

“Shall I go through his pockets?” asked the dapper little man. “He’s got
a gun.”

"You have blundered twice already, Higgins,” was the reply in sarcastic
tones. “I would as soon trust a baby with a razor as I would you with
this man again. Go back to my compartment and bring my clothes. Change
your own while you are there.”

As Higgins once more climbed out upon the foot-board the other man
tossed out of a window the long, cotton, bandage-like garment and
revealed a circle of dark skin where a skimpy white jacket failed to
reach down to a sagging woolen skirt. Deftly he picked Smith’s gun from
his pocket and, with a few expert pats, located and extracted the two
pistols that Smith had taken from Higgins. Meanwhile Smith, tall and
angular, stood silently with his hands up and his back turned.

“Now that your teeth are drawn, Mr.—ah—Smith, you might make yourself
comfortable on the opposite seat.” Smith quietly did as was suggested
and gazed, in a bored manner, at the opposite seat, where sat the
incongruous figure of a white man partly disguised as an old native
woman. He gave but a glance at the gun resting on the seat beside his
companion and then studied the remarkably clever make-up on the face. As
he looked he began to smile.

“So you came down the opposite side of the carriage and arrived first
while our friend Higgins pretended to have his skirt caught and so
delayed me?”

“A fairly clever deduction,” returned the man with the gun. “Anything
else you would like to ask?”

“It would interest me to know why Mr. Sterne, the well-known pearl buyer
of Calcutta, has taken to thieving.”

“I am honored by your recognition,” was the suave reply. “Perhaps you
remember a game of billiards that we had at the club. You said then that
the only profession more exciting than the detection of crime was the
profession of the criminal. That is true. You do not detect crime for
money but for the excitement. There is not sufficient excitement in your
profession to satisfy me.”

“And yet,” continued Smith in an easy conversational tone, “throughout
all India your word is known to be as good as your certified check.”

“To break one’s word is to lose one’s self-respect,” replied Sterne. “To
steal is to lose the respect of a few people for whose esteem you may
not care a snap of your finger.”

“All honest men despise a thief.”

“There are few honest men,” was the cool reply, “and most of them are
stupid.”

“May I smoke?” asked Smith, languidly gazing out of the window, although
he was keenly estimating the distance to the next station.

Sterne took a package of Smith’s own cigarettes from the table and
tossed it over. He followed it with a box of matches before adding:

“We are coming to the small town of Ellore. It is extremely unlikely
that there will be any first-class passengers or that anybody will come
near this compartment. However, I will pull down the blinds on this
side, which is next to the station. Whatever happens I will handle the
situation, and if you make the slightest untoward move I shall be forced
to shoot—and shoot to kill.”

<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>

<hr>

### Chapter 4
{: .chapternumber .no_toc}

### Smith’s Dispatch Box
{: .chaptertitle}

Smith made no reply and smoked lazily, leaning back with his eyes half
closed. He was puzzled about Langa Doonh. He knew that the boy’s
training would make him try to keep in touch with his master. Had he
heard through his thin door? If so, what was he doing? Had he met with
foul play at the hands of the strange native? Smith feared for his
servant and it worried him even more than his own awkward predicament.

When the train stopped at Ellore it was just as Sterne had anticipated.
No stranger came near their compartment. A few seconds before the train
started, however, Higgins entered from the platform, dressed in his own
clothes and with a suitcase in his hand.

“Sit here,” directed Sterne very curtly. “Take this gun and shoot him if
he moves.”

Smith reflected that it was fifty miles to the next station, which was
Rajahmundry, an important one on the Godavery River. At Rajahmundry he
felt sure that the guard would look into his compartment. Instinctively
he knew that his critical moment must arrive before the train stopped
again. The failure of his boy to appear at the last station convinced
him that he had to depend entirely upon himself. Only his own wits could
save him.

Meanwhile Sterne had opened the suitcase and taken out a bottle of
whitish fluid with which he liberally sponged face, neck, hands and
wrists. Magically the dark skin turned to the sunburned hue of the
average European. Disregarding the remainder of his body he quickly
donned the white man’s garb, standing forth in a faultlessly pressed
suit of white flannels. The transformation was almost incredible. Where
had been a slovenly old ayah was a smartly dressed white man of India.

‘‘While I was dressing, an idea occurred to me,” said Sterne, taking the
pistol from Higgins and sitting down opposite to Smith. “It is foolish
for any man to commit murder so long as he can get somebody else to do
it for a few hundred rupees. Any man with brains would be willing to pay
more than that to escape the danger of the death penalty. However,
nobody seems to be able to kill you—even when you walk straight into my
trap. It remains for me to do it. Isn’t that reasonable?”

“Uh-huh,” said Smith very casually, "but what’s the idea that occurred
to you while dressing?”

“Look!” continued Sterne, carelessly throwing open the door of the small
servants’ compartment. “My servant carried out my orders in regard to
your servant.”

Through the open door Smith saw the bound form of Langa Doonh lying upon
the floor. A great load was lifted from his mind at the sight. Smith was
fond of Langa Doonh, and dead people do not have their legs tied.

“I merely show you this so that you may know how utterly helpless you
are,” continued Sterne as he closed the door and resumed his seat. “It
would be weak-minded for me to kill you if I can find another solution.
You have intimated that I never break my word. The same truth applies to
you. Every criminal in India knows it. Your word would be accepted by
any thief with brains if he has worked long in this country.”

“Your proposition?” drawled Smith.

“I will spare your life,” returned Sterne, “if you will promise to do as
I tell you.”

Smith merely raised his eyebrows in an interrogative manner.

“You will get off the train at Rajahmundrv,” continued Sterne, “and go
down the Godavery River by native boat to Yanaon, which is a French
possession. There you will take ship out of India and you will never set
foot in this country again.”

“An interesting idea,” replied Smith but showing slight interest. “Will
you entertain a counter proposition from me?”

“Proceed.”

“I will give you two hundred thousand rupees in jewels if you will go
down the Godavery River and leave the country as you would have me do.”

“Scarcely enough, old dear,” bantered Sterne, but a gleam came into his
eyes.

“You forget,” argued Smith, “that you will avoid the necessity of
killing me and thereby escape the unpleasantness of a death penalty
hanging over your head. That surely is worth several lakhs of rupees.”

Through his half-shut eyes, as he smoked. Smith believed that he could
detect upon the face of his opponent the faintest trace of cunning
covetousness. He was fencing for his life and was about to deliver his
most skilful thrust. Failure to penetrate his adversary’s guard almost
surely would forfeit his life or his honor. With apparent unconcern he
flicked the ash from his cigarette and waited for the reply.

“Just—a—what jewels are these?”

“The loot that your organization collected and which came into my hands
when I captured your lieutenant in Ceylon.”

Sterne’s eyes narrowed as he scrutinized the face of the agent of the
Criminal Intelligence Department. He knew that Smith was far removed
from a fool and he tried to read the thoughts of the man who smoked his
cigarette so calmly in the face of death or dishonor.

“I had hoped to use the jewels,” continued Smith, “to bait a very
beautiful trap for you in Calcutta.”

“You have them here?”

Smith’s eyelids quivered ever so little. It might have been smoke and it
might have been nervousness. He was playing to a subtle audience and the
least bit of overacting would be fatal.

“Is it a bargain?” he asked. “Will you accept the jewels?”

“I have made no promise but I will inspect your dispatch box,” replied
Sterne, indicating with his pistol a leather-covered box of considerable
size which lay upon the floor. “If the jewels are there they are mine
without the trouble of making a bargain.”

“Permit me to open the box,” offered Smith, extracting a small key from
his pocket and bending forward rather eagerly.

“Sit back!” snapped Sterne. “Throw me the key.”

Smith tossed over the key and shrugged his shoulders resignedly while
Sterne glanced from the dispatch box to Higgins and hesitated.

“Open the box for the gentleman, Higgins, like a good boy,” interposed
Smith with what might possibly have been a gleam of hope in his eyes.

“Shoot him if he gets off his seat,” said Sterne, shoving a spare pistol
across to Higgins. “Smith, for some reason, you want anybody but me to
open that box and that is just the reason I shall open it myself.”

“Go to the devil!” growled Smith.

Sterne smiled in amusement as he dragged the box in front of his feet
upon the floor. He unbuckled the leather cover and threw it back,
exposing the top of the steel box within. Smith bent forward a trifle as
if to watch the opening of the box. In reality it brought him a few
inches nearer to Higgins and allowed his body to assume an attitude that
would permit a spring.

“No false move!” warned Sterne, looking up and feeling the gun beside
him on the seat.

Higgins stood up as Steme inserted the key and could not resist
glimpsing the operation out of the tail of his eye. Mainly, however, he
watched Smith and kept his gun well forward.

“Look out for the Jack-in-the-box when you lift the cover,” warned Smith
with a chuckle. “My trap may be better than yours.”’

It was a subtle speech and a most audacious one. Sterne grunted
contemptuously, turned the key and lifted the steel cover. There was
exposed the usual upper tray containing papers, pens, pencils and other
odds and ends.

“Gracyous me! The ugly face didn’t jump out!” jibed Smith.

“Hold your tongue!” snarled Sterne.

On either side of the tray were two brass lifters that sank in slots,
flush with the tray, when not being used for raising it. Sterne inserted
two fingers of each hand under these brass loops and lifted. They rose
freely for a good two inches and then came a violent clang from within
the box while the loops shot downward, crushing the fingers to the bone
and holding them fast against the heavy box.

“Shoot!” screamed Sterne.

With the clang and the scream Smith’s body catapulted toward Higgins
while his long right arm sent his clenched fist straight at the solar
plexus of the man with the gun. It was a desperate attempt and might
have ended in disaster had not Langa Doonh bounded through the door at
that very moment and struck up the pistol so that the bullet went six
inches over Smith’s head. The next instant the blow landed and Higgins
crumpled into a senseless heap upon the floor.

After collecting the various guns Smith turned his attention to Sterne,
whose forehead was streaming with perspiration from pain and fury.

Unconcernedly he pressed a concealed spring in the box and released the
man’s fingers.

“Nice little trap, wasn’t it?” he commented. “Better than yours, eh
what?”

“Sahib,” said Langa Doonh, “boy very sorry to get tied up. Only could
work loose just now. Sahib angry?”

“Not at all,” replied Smith, busily engaged in handcuffing the sullen
Sterne and the senseless Higgins.

“Sahib like clean shirt?”

“Uh-huh,” said Smith, "might as well.”

<p id="theend">~ The End ~
<h6 class="btt"><a href="#top">Back to Top</a></h6>