
# [1]{.chapternumber} [That Murky Hole of Hell]{.chaptertitle}

“I’ve been pretty much all over the world. For the last twelve years
I’ve traveled about the United States and I’ve learned a few things,"
remarked Jim Chamberlin, structural engineer and my closest friend and
co-worker.

"Yeah?” I answered. "What, for instance?”

"Well," drawled Chamberlin, a husky Westerner, "the most beautiful
natural park within a city is Glen Oak in Peoria; the most beautiful
city is St. Joseph, Missouri, in summer; the most gorgeous and
breath-taking scenery is among the Colorado Rockies, and the backdoor to
Hell is this same Snake Swamp.”

"No doubt about that,” I agreed, "but I am not going to swallow any old
ladies' yarns about spooks. I am of the opinion that we will find a
perfectly sane cause for every one of the many deaths in that devilish
morass. They certainly cannot claim that ghosts are responsible for
those who died by bullets."

“They can claim most anything. There is no reason to believe that gunmen
don't have spooks, the same as medieval maiden ladies, is there?" he
replied jocularly.

“Oh, go to the devil, with your spooks!” I exploded, but nevertheless I
was forced to confess defeat in the next breath. I said:

"But to be frank I must admit the local lore about that Snake Swamp has
got me plumb cuckoo, and I’m no chicken-hearted parlor pet, either. It
all sounds like a damned joke, but you can't fake bullet-riddled and
fume-poisoned cadavers and that's that."

"The place must be crowded with spooks," ventured Jim.

"It's crowded with snakes, but all I've seen so far are harmless and
they surely don’t account for the fatalities. There is something mighty
uncanny about that swamp. Anyway you look at it,” I gazed off into the
murky depths of the forbidding morass as Jim emptied his pipe by
knocking it against the log on which we were sitting. He put the pipe in
its case with a snap, and arose to his full six feet.

"Well then, what do you say?” queried my pal Jim.

"You're on." I agreed finally as we started to walk back along the
trail. "I’ll stay here with you and hunt spooks. It will be a change and
a chance for some excitement, anyway.”

Had I known the fate that awaited me in the dank depths of that murky
hole of Hell, there is little doubt that I would have taken the first
train back to New York, instead of walking to our backwoods lodgings and
preparing to stalk phantoms in an almost impassable bog.

<hr class="chapter-break" />
