
Chapter 1

Slab Bait

Fid Meralt stepped out of the shadows a block from the hideout, when the
coppers began to filter, like so many ghosts, into the bordering streets
and alleys. Lieutenant Michaelson, leading the coppers, stared at
Meralt's gray face with its deep-sunken eyes.

"You in again, Meralt?\" said Michaelson. "I might have known. Working
for the Manhattan State Bank?\"

"Yes, Michaelson,\" said Fid Meralt. "And I earn my money. You buzzards
tried for three weeks to run down the Nielsen mob that took Manhattan
for two hundred grand, and didn't get anywhere. The skipper of the bank
called me in. I found the hideout in twenty-four hours."

"Sure they're in there?"

"Of course. I'm always sure. That's why I'm worth what I'm paid.\"

"You knock down more reward dough than any private dick in the business,
besides retainers,\" said Michaelson. "A cop gets his salary. There's a
difference.\"

"Are we here to compare pay days, or to go in after Nielsen and his
men?\"

Michaelson straightened, took a deep breath. "It looks like a tough
layout.\"

"It is. Seven men in that shack. An arsenal of stutter guns and gats.
And every man who gets caught burns. So they'll die before they'll be
caught." Meralt's face twisted into a queer, gray grimace.

Michaelson shivered. "Which means that somehow you'll see that everyone
is taken alive, as usual. I don't think you'd shoot a hood if you had to
save your life, Meralt. You'd rather take 'em alive, to burn!"

Michaelson would have sworn, watching Meralt, that the man was in
abysmal terror of what he had to do --- if he hadn't known that Meralt
feared nothing human. Meralt was an enigma. Even his name was strange.
Michaelson wondered about it. Fid Meralt! Extended by reporters to
"Death-house" Fid Meralt.

Michaelson decided that he'd rather have almost any name but that,
grimly famous though it was. Michaelson was Irish, and human. Meralt, a
devil with hell in his eyes.

"I'll lead the show, as usual," said Meralt. "That was understood when I
phoned headquarters,"

Michaelson grinned, then nodded.

"All streets blocked off?" asked Meralt.

"Yeah."

"Then Nielsen knows that the cops are here. There\'s no use waiting.
Signal your men to keep under cover and close in. Gas masks. Blast the
windows out first. Then drop tear-gas bombs. Let\'s go!"

Meralt was halfway to the hideout before Michaelson realized he had
gone. Michaelson signaled for the charge. Stutter guns covered the
zigzag course of Meralt, who made the steps just as lead sprayed the
door. Then Meralt lunged against the tough wood, was through the
battered entrance. Michaelson was fifty feet behind, running heavily. He
listened for the gats of Fid Meralt, tried to see through the white
smoke.

His men were masked monsters, approaching the shack of Bats Nielsen.
High above the pandemonium rose the shriek of the mob leader.

"Meralt's coming! Get that guy!" His voice was choky, labored, through
the tear-gas fumes.

"Every rat knows him," thought Michaelson, "and why he isn\'t on a slab,
years ago, is beyond me --- "

There were two sharp reports, right on the heels of Nielsen\'s scream.

Michaelson said to himself, "Got both of Bats\' arms, if I know anything
about Fid Meralt."

A scream from the shack was Michaelson\'s answer. Then Nielsen\'s
hysterical shout: "You won't get away with it this time, Death-house
Meralt!"

\*\*\*

A Tommy chattered shrilly for a second. Michaelson, going through the
door, his men boiling in after him, heard the tommy clatter to the floor
in the midst of its burst. In a few moments, he knew, the gangsters
would be helpless under the gas attacks. One spatting shot sounded,
breaking the rhythmic chattering of the tommy.

"That time he smeared the gun-hand of the tommy artist all over the
cartridge drum!\" muttered Michaelson. He was a little surprised to
discover that he was more interested in Fid Meralt and his doings than
in the fact that he and his men were about to effect a capture that
would make their names ring around the country.

Michaelson reached the head of the stairs in time to see a strange,
awesome tableau. Two men were sprawled behind the windows in the
hallway, knocked down by the fire of coppers from outside. Four others
were down, groaning, kicking, their breaths coming in gasps, thin faces
streaming with tears.

Fid Meralt was facing Bats Nielsen. The latter was staggering through a
door. Fid Meralt was heading straight for him. Michaelson, watching,
wondered if Nielsen still was able to use the gun held in his hands. He
could have snapped a shot at the mob leader, but somehow, with Meralt
there, it seemed the natural thing to let him handle it.

Meralt\'s gats dropped to the floor, even as Nielsen\'s all but came
into line. Michaelson started to lift his own revolver when Fid Meralt
moved.

His right foot shot out, kicking Nielsen\'s gat spinning. It exploded as
Meralt kicked, but the bullet went into the wall. Then Fid Meralt
stepped in.

He swung his right fist in a deadly, high-looping arc. The fist crashed
against the face of Bats Nielsen. Bats went down. He tried to rise
again. He choked through his tears as he cursed Meralt.

"Damn you! Damn you, Meralt!" he said. "Why can't you kill a man
decently? Do you get a cut on the executioner\'s C and a half?"

Then Michaelson fastened Bats Nielsen\'s wrists together with the cuffs.
His coppers cornered the other members of Bats\' mob. Two were dead, by
fire from outside. But five, including Nielsen, would live to burn.
Michaelson felt a little cold. He always did, after watching the work of
Fid Meralt.

Meanwhile Fid Meralt was walking away from his latest coup as though the
devil were at his heels. Hell\'s fire burned in his heart. In the eye of
his mind he looked at a picture that was all of ten years old: the
picture of a man clawing at his face, staggering back, spinning to a
fall on the carpet of his office, with a bullet in his head --- a bullet
fired by Fid Meralt.

Only then his name had not been Fid Meralt. It had happened in a
far-city, Seattle. He hadn't been a dick then. He'd been a
twenty-year-old kid, and he had killed a man --- a surgeon named Dean
Clift.

And several times a day, or whenever he closed his eyes, since that
time, he had seen Dean Clift stagger back, spin, and fall, hands clawing
at his face.

And he saw something else: a man drop through the trap of a scaffold,
breaking his neck in accordance with the verdict of a jury, the sentence
of a judge. That man had been hanged for the murder of Dean Clift.

And that man had not been Fid Meralt! Nor had Fid Meralt saved the other
man from hanging!

Two pictures. The man who had been slain, in his staggering, spinning
fall; and the one who had paid for the crime with a black cap over his
head and a noose around his neck. Meralt hadn't seen that, not actually,
but in imagination.

Meralt could never forget. That's why he almost ran away from the scene
of his latest triumph. Why he could never tell anybody, even Michaelson,
that every time he leveled his gats at a killer, he saw Dean Clift in
his place --- and shot the killer in arms or legs to keep from watching
another staggering, spinning fall. He'd shot one man to death; he'd
never shoot another.

"But merciful heaven," he moaned. "I let another man go to the scaffold
for killing Clift. And nobody knows how many I have sent to the chair
instead of drilling them. Why in hell do I stick with this racket when
it keeps me always on the verge of insanity?"

He didn't need to ask that, really, even of himself. For he knew.

And what he also knew was yet a third picture. Remembering it, he calmed
down, and something of peace came back to his face. It always did, when
he remembered that third picture. He slowed his walk. Finally he
signaled a taxicab, gave an address. The address was that of Jerome
Collings, president of Manhattan State Bank.

A butler answered his ring, looking sleepy.

"Get Collings," said Fid Meralt.

"But it's after one o'clock --- "

"Get Collings! Or do I have to get him myself? I'm Fid Meralt."

The butler's face seemed to spread as he stared at Meralt. Then he
hurried away, looking back over his shoulder, pulling on his coat as he
went. In a minute he was back.

"Mr. Collings will be right out, sir."

When the big, iron-gray, craggy-browed bank president appeared, in
pajamas and dressing gown, Fid Meralt said: "I've finished that job.
I've come for my money."

Collings' eyes widened. "Don't you think I'm good for it? Can't you wait
until morning?"

"Give me the money," snapped Fid Meralt. "Fifteen grand! We got the
whole mob, and all but ten grand of the dough they took. I told you I'd
want my dough the minute I'd earned it."

"Well, you certainly must want it badly, indeed, to get a man up at
one-fifteen --- "

"I do," said Fid Meralt, "damn bad!"

He got his money.

On the street again his face was almost peaceful.

"Maybe money will never do the trick for her," he thought, "but if it
will. I'll find it, no matter how much is needed 1 I wonder if she is
awake?"

But he knew she was. She almost always was. That was because her
suffering almost never gave her rest. His face was gentle as he gave her
address:

"Center Hospital, cabby, and step on it!"

\*\*\*

Fid Meralt met the eyes of the girl at the desk, a question in his own.
She smiled at him. She'd known him too long to be surprised at the time
he chose for his visits. She held a newspaper in her hands. She had
looked up from it at him.

"No news about you in a long time, Mr. Meralt," she said.

Meralt's face was gray. He thought of what the papers would call him.
Death-house Fid Meralt.

"If that's the sort of stuff you like to read!"' he said harshly. Then
he turned hard, inquiring eyes on the girl.

'"Does she ever read about it?" he snapped.

"No. We obey your orders. Besides, they're doctor's orders, too. She
must not be excited. Poor thing! Almost ten years of it!"

"But it won't be much longer," said Fid Meralt savagely. "There must be
some physician ... ."

There was pity in the face of the nurse. She almost shook her head,
would have, if she hadn't been afraid of the mad light in his eyes. Fid
Meralt might forget himself and strike her if she even hinted that it
was hopeless.

"You don't believe it, do you, nurse?" he said in a low voice. "But I
know there's a chance. I'll give anything --- my life --- "

The nurse's eyes were misty.

"If love could do it, she would have walked out of here years ago."

"Love?" repeated Meralt, looking stupid. "Love? I don't understand."

"I mean," said the girl, who had gone too far to retreat, and knew it,
"that you must love this girl with all your heart and soul to do so much
for her."

"Love her? Love her?" he repeated. "Why, it never occurred ... Listen,
nurse, has anybody ever said anything of the kind to her?"

"I don't know, I'm sure. I'm not the only nurse on duty here."

"Well, if anybody ever does --- " His voice was fierce.

"We're not gangsters, Mr. Meralt," said the girl grimly. "You can't talk
to us like that."

Meralt approached her, stared down at her. She met his eyes without
flinching.

"Forget it," he said, gruffly, "you can't possibly know how I feel, or
why, or --- or anything."

Her hand shot out, covered his, whose knuckles were white, on the desk.

"I understand," she said softly. "She's awake, if you wish to go in."

"Go ahead, please. I don't like to surprise her."

A bit later the girl beckoned from the door. She was smiling. Her eyes
were big with sympathy. Fid Meralt, holding his hat in his hands,
stepped into the private room. The nurse went out, closed the door
softly behind her.

Meralt looked down at the girl on the bed. For a full minute he didn't
say anything. Just stood there and looked at her. The girl's eyes met
his. Hers were deep and blue, in a face that was startlingly white. Her
hair was spread back over her pillow, as though to frame her face. Her
lips were smiling.

"Ye gods," said Fid Meralt, "you're the loveliest thing alive!"

Now her eyes danced, and her smile was bigger.

"You never fail me, Fid," she said. "I always wait for you to stand
there, and devour me, and say just that. I'd die if you didn't, even
though I know it's part of the game. I think I live on it. It's a lot
better than the food I get here --- "

"The food isn't good?" he asked quickly. "If they don't give you the
best --- "

"Never mind, Fid," she said. "I was just using a figure of speech.
Everything here is of the best, always has been. There's no better in
the world. But to see you --- the only one who comes --- "

"I could tell others to come, if you need them."

"You're so afraid I won't get my least wish granted, aren't you, Fid?"
she laughed, her voice sounding like music. "But the nurses are enough,
and I've been, here so long that they're my family, you know."

\*\*\*

He dropped into a chair beside the bed, after staring as though he could
never get his fill of her.

"It's never a game," he told her, "and I do want you to have everything
you want. I really, honestly and truly, do believe you're the loveliest
woman in the world."

She stared into his eyes for a moment.

"You do love me, don't you. Fid," she said, finally, "with all your
heart?"

She said it so simply that he was stricken dumb. She'd never said it
before. He could feel himself going white.

\"Why, Fid," she said, reaching a hand to him, \"I do believe you\'re
scared. Didn\'t any other woman ever surprise you like that? Why, Fid,
I\'ve known for a long time that you loved me, and --- "

He fought for control, his eyes still on the face of Lela Prague. Just
what could he say to her, anyhow? He'd told her so many lies, about the
money he spent, trying to make her well. It all came from her brother\'s
share in his business, he had told her. That had been long ago, and she
had come to accept his help as her due. Or so he thought, so he hoped.

\"And what?" he said.

"I love you, Fid. I think you might have known it, all along. But with
me lying here, as I am --- "

He gripped her hand tightly.

"Please," he said, \"don\'t talk about it."

\"But I have to, Fid. You see, I\'m always reading up on things --- you
know, things like what\'s the matter with me, and always talking with
the surgeons who come in, and are my friends. I don\'t think I\'d ever
tell you, Fid, about loving you, if I didn't think there was a chance."

"A chance?" he repeated stupidly.

\"Yes. Some foreign surgeon, a man with magic in his brain and in his
hands. He\'s very expensive, Fid. Doctor Lanning wrote him about me
several times, giving all details. He has been interested. He\'s coming
here, to New York. He offers some hope. He told Lanning he thought he
might be able --- "

Fid Meralt sat back, releasing her hand. His shoulders were shaking, his
hands opening and closing.

\"Why, Fid," she said, \"I thought you\'d be happy. I tell you I love
you, and it scares you to death. I tell you there\'s a chance I may get
well, so that we can really be together, like a couple of people in love
should be, and you get more scared than ever. Just what in the world?"

\"I'm happy, happier than words can express, Lela," he almost whispered
it, \"that you may walk again! I\'d rob banks to get the money. I\'d
steal --- "

She laughed a little.

"My brother\'s ownership in your business wouldn\'t go far enough, then?
Fid, do you suppose I\'d have taken money from you, all these years, if
I hadn\'t believed there was some hope ? Do you think I ever really
believed that my brother had any claim on you? I knew my brother --- "

Her face clouded. For a moment she looked away into some far distance.
Her eyes were wide, and Fid Meralt knew that she was seeing pictures,
too. He touched her hand, shaking her a little. She looked back at him.

\"He never mentioned any friend named Fid Meralt, nor even spoke of any
legitimate business. But when I first accepted help from you I wanted to
believe it, wanted it more than I wanted to be well. Do you know why?"

He knew why, well enough, but he waited for her to tell him, because he
couldn't trust himself to speak.

\"Because he never did what they accused him of. I\'m sure of it! If I
get well enough to get around, I\'ll prove it! And you\'ll help me, Fid,
because you\'re a smart man, and we\'ll clear his name, even if we can't
bring him back. You understand, don't you, that with that in my mind I'd
accept money from the devil himself, if there was a chance of getting
well?"

\"I understand, Lela," he whispered through white lips. To himself he
thought: \"You did take money from the devil!"

But enough of this. He had to keep on playing his string out. So he
smiled at her, patted her hands.

\"I'll turn handsprings clear around Central Park, darling," he said,
\"the day you stand alone. And whatever you do. I'll help you do."

\"But even with all my hinting, you wouldn't admit you love me!"

She expected to be kissed, he could see that. But if he kissed her ---
in a flash it came to him. He could pretend to be shy. A good dick could
pretend anything.

\*\*\*

So he fled from her in apparent confusion, and her delighted laugh
followed him through the door. He closed the door behind him, turned and
stared at it without seeing it, for a full half minute. Under his breath
he was saying: "Damn ... . damn ... ."

The nurse at the desk touched his arm.

"Are you drunk?" she asked, suspiciously.

He whirled on her.

"I? Drunk? If I only were! If I only were, so that I couldn\'t think,
feel --- "

He clapped his hat on his head, stalked past the nurse and out, onto the
street again. Through his head ran the words: "I love you, Fid ... . I
love you, Fid ... ."

They were like red-hot whiplashes being drawn slowly across his heart.

He worshipped the ground Lela Prague walked on. He hadn't known it until
tonight. Up until now it had been expiation, the desire to atone that
drove him like a host of furies.

That she took it for granted that if she were well, they would be
together, was worse still. Her words repeated themselves in his ears,
and in his heart the words he would have said had they been possible,
made answer.

"Where now, Fid Meralt?" he asked himself. "Where now?"

Those pictures, trooping again --- especially the picture of the man who
had dropped through that grisly trap, with a noose around his neck and a
bag over his head, in payment for the murder of one Doctor Clift.

That man's name had been Dartt Prague, brother of Lela Prague.

And Lela did not know Fid Meralt's part in that.

