
# [1]{.chapternumber} [A Wreck with an Acre of Jungle]{.chaptertitle}

The ramshackle house, battered by years of inattention, was hidden in
high brush and tangled young trees. The porch had sagged and the window
glass had disappeared and the roof, luxuriant with moss, was rotted in
spots.

"This?" Micheline Moore said incredulously, sweeping her arm in the
direction of the house, "this is what you expect to sell?"

Paul Corey pinched his lower lip with thumb and forefinger and studied
the building. His grey eyes held a trace of disappointment.

"It's certainly a wreck, Mich," he admitted; "it's an acre of jungle
with a ruin in the middle." His fingers moved upward and pinched the
bridge of his long nose. "But not hopeless; it's a good piece of land.
The house can be fixed and the lake is convenient. It'll cost money for
improvements, but that's why the price is so cheap."

They pushed their way through the bushes and climbed on the porch.

"The lumber's good, Mich," Corey said and kicked the planking heavily.

Micheline stepped through the doorway and Corey followed her, his hair,
not quite six feet from the soles of his feet, brushing the top of the
frame. Inside the bare rooms were scattered with refuse from past
picnickers and tramps.

"It's not too bad," Micheline said, encouraged by their examination; "a
woman's imagination could accomplish wonders."

Corey twisted his lean frame through a maze of broken furniture. "Let's
look at the foundation." He tried to open the cellar door but it was
wedged fast by a sprung board. He pulled and pounded and labored until
he had managed to open it several inches. Using a stout piece of lumber
he inserted it in the crack and pried the door free.

They went down the rickety stairs.

The cellar was completely dark; no windows nor holes let in the
daylight. He turned on the flashlight he had taken from his pocket and
shone it over the dusty concrete floor and walls.

Micheline said uneasily, "It's creepy here."

The remnants of a packing case leaned against the corner of the cellar.
Corey pulled the warped wood away from the wall. The sides, cracked and
curling into thin strips, collapsed at his feet. A cloud of dust
billowed around them, then slowly cleared.

Micheline screamed, weakly but earnestly.

The dust-dimmed rays of the flashlight were reflected by a white skull.

The unexpected discovery combined with Micheline's cry made Corey juggle
the light nervously in his hand. It took him several minutes of shaky
conversation with her before he recovered his poise enough to step
closer, spraying the beam around the floor. Micheline glued herself up
against him, twining her fingers in his suit.

"Don't be frightened, Mich," Corey said dully, preoccupied with his
examination. The skull had its customary grin weirdly altered by the
lack of its two front teeth. Ribs of the skeleton stuck up sharply in
the air, but the rest of the bones were hidden by the dirt and debris.

"I—I'm—n—not," Micheline stammered. "Paul! Let's—get out of here!"

"Hmm," he replied, paying no attention to her. A glint of metal appeared
under his delicate probing and he extracted a tarnished cigarette case.
Just underneath an elaborate "Kid" engraved on the lid was a hole, the
thickness of a finger, punched through the metal. He shifted the
flashlight from the case back to the skeleton. One of the lower ribs had
been splintered halfway down its curved length.

Micheline had silently watched his flashlight focus on the cigarette
case and the bones. "Bullet hole?" she quavered.

"I think so," Corey answered. He turned around with difficulty, hampered
by her tight embrace. "We'll go back to town now. The police have to be
notified; we can come back with them again after we have lunch."

"Lunch, ugh!" Micheline said and shivered.

<hr class="chapter-break" />
